if I'm easily offended I'm easily
manipulated so if you are that person
where you are reactive reactive reactive
rule number one shut the up cuz if
you're looking to be respected you need
to manage yourself but there are times
that people are going to cross you and
disrespect you well how do you deal with
it so there is a guy post it's talked to
the intelligence communities and it
really really helps when you're dealing
with people and so one of the ways you
deal with that kind of behavior is every
the former secret service agent turned
human behavior expert from protecting
presidents to interrogating the world's
most dangerous men she now teaches
people how to develop mental strength
and persuasive communication skills how
did they train you as a secret service
agent to have that strong mental
Foundation that you have there's a lot
of things so first one of the biggest
things that holds people back is the
idea that I'm special you're not that
special for example I was one of the
First Responders out 9/11 I watched
thousands of people die and one of the
things that got me through it was
understanding I wasn't alone in it and
when you learned that you can get
through anything when you tell yourself
nobody knows what I'm going through
nobody can help you cuz it's just you
going through it now the next thing
what's most important is this tool that
we don't pay attention to our body and
there's this study where they started
recording people walking then they laid
it to convicted felons and they said to
them who would you pick as prey they all
picked the same people they were so
there are simple things you can do with
your hands your voice how you sit and I
will tell you everything but also the
other thing that's actually interesting
which you didn't ask but I will
volunteer this information are the
strategies to tell if somebody's being
truthful or not and it's that's Li
detection 101
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
Evie pomus when you think about the
books that you've written the content
you produce and all that you're
fundamentally doing for people in your
own words how do you summarize or Define
that what is it that you think you're
doing for people with the content the
books you've written Etc it's a great
question and I don't know if I have a
clear answer I think always I think
about how am I serving other people I
always go back to that I remember even
when I wrote my book becoming
bulletproof actually my book was
supposed to launch right at the height
of covid I mean it's when the world was
shutting down and I remember I had a PR
person I my agent uh the Publishers
everyone's like hey you know this covid
thing is happening all the media tour
glits went away why don't we postpone
the launch of the book and nobody was
advising me to launch the book nobody
everyone's like Drop don't do it don't
do it and I remember I was like all
right I need to kind of tune everybody
out and I I paused and I I thought to
myself why did I write this book I wrote
this book to help people okay so if the
goal is to help people make them more
resilient help them live less fearlessly
the world right now is in a state of
fear so if I follow that principle then
right now I should launch the
book and I remember against everybody's
advisement I launched it and when you
get DMS from people and private messages
what is it the essence of what they're
coming to you
for so I was surprised with my book
where people began writing in I'm
dealing with this problem your book
helped me find a way
out or I'm dealing with this can you
give me guidance on how to deal with it
what is the essence of what they're
struggling with it's always themselves
it's not the it's not the world around
you I get it to some extent but it's
almost always where the
problem we either sabotage ourselves we
get in the way we make decisions or we
think I didn't do anything everything's
cause an effect anytime you say do act
or don't act it has a consequence or an
effect to it and I think sometimes we're
so blasé about it in the Western World
the science shows that we actually
downplay our faults when we make a
mistake it's not that big of it a deal
we downplay our stuff and we actually
lift up our positive attributes it's
okay but to a point because when you
downplay things and you downplay your
involvement you downplay your choices
you downplay what role you play in your
life then you can't you you really are
essentially poweress and you're you're
blaming the world and I'm not saying
that other people can't harm you they
will they just will I think if people
made peace with the fact that they're
actors out there some I know some I
don't know and in pursuit of their
self-interest people are going to make
choices that hurt me period bar on the
end if you can live with that and
understand that you will be okay because
you just have more awareness in fact in
the when I did polygraphs the interview
room after I interviewed so many people
and typically I would interview suspects
um people that we suspected committing a
crime so lie detector tests lie detector
test but I was a lie detector not the
machine a lot of people think you hook
that thing up oh ping they're lying no
like you sit there you assess people you
read people what the polycraft does is
it tells you when you ask a series of
questions to this person I hook Steven
up I ask him a series of several
questions I look to see what step's
autonomic nervous system is doing
heartbeat right does that change your
electrodermal activity how much you
sweat you're breathing the way you
breathe so that's why you have the blood
pressure cuff you have the electrodermal
plates which actually look at sweating
you won't it's imperceptible to you but
the plates will pick up sweating the
sweating activity the change in
breathing so if I'm asking you a series
of questions I'm looking at how your
body deviates during those questions uh
you even have sensors cuz sometimes
people try to beat the polygraph and so
there's sensor pads that we have to see
if they're doing certain movements or
not
I personally don't think you can beat it
but again the test itself means nothing
you can't take it to court you can't say
judge they fil their polygraph that's
not what it's there for it's there to
get more
information and look who are you if
you're lying who are you really in
Judgment of yourself that's why your
body is reacting a second ago you talked
about how victims stay victims and this
whole idea of becoming a bulletproof
person because regardless of what we do
in our lives bad things going to happen
we're going to encounter narcissists and
people that are looking to take
advantage of us there's a certain mental
fortitude that you exude you you exude a
certain type of mental resilience and
strength what is the found you know and
I think that's really critical because
if you have that
strong internal
Foundation then all everything else
we're probably going to talk about today
becomes much easier and possible but
without that like strong Foundation when
the wind blows the house Falls over so
if we think about step one in building
that strong mental fortitude Foundation
that you have where does one begin and
especially if we're beginning from a
very very bad place we're beginning from
a place of victimhood bad things have
happened we're not the most confident
person it starts with who's around you
that's where it starts if you have
people around you anybody can break
victimhood like anybody can you can so I
want to put that out there just because
you're locked in the place doesn't mean
you have to stay in there you can but
usually you're if you're locked in
somewhere it's because the system you
have around you that you also help
create and perpetuate to some degree
we're not completely innocent we play a
role the system that is built around you
keeps you think of it this way it keeps
you in
jail so you have to look at your
environment and say what about my
environment is keeping me here usually
it's a person or people hopefully it's
one and you're not dealing with multiple
now it can be family and that's where
you know some when you deal with
children and you deal with certain you
know crimes and
abuse I I I you know I always feel like
the one population of people that truly
have an like I don't want to say excuse
but you it's really not their fault are
kids because there's just so vulnerable
and like they rely on you for their
their livelihood they need somebody to
feed them clothe them take care of them
or they can't survive however if as you
age right as you mature it's looking at
your environment who's around me and who
is keeping me here who it and you know
what becomes hard it becomes hard
because you'll have a let's say uh I
don't I I'm going to use this term bad
actor in your life that bad actor can be
Mom Dad sibling brother it can be
anybody you can love that bad
actor but the choices and the things
that that person does impacts you it
makes you more vulnerable even if when
you look at even if you just look at
crime well they did they've done a lot
of different studies and what they found
is even let's say if I don't commit
crime but I'm around other people who
commit crime I am more likely to be shot
than any other population of people I
could not be involved in any nefarious
activity at all I could be clean but
simply because of who I associate with
that makes me more vulnerable to being
uh to becoming a victim so that's what
where you start who's around you now
other really important things whoever
you pick for your companion if you have
one it's huge that companion is either
going to raise you up or they're going
to sink your ship down and is that in
the real world best friends husbands
wives if we're talking I would say first
intimate partner whatever that is to you
husband wife boyfriend girlfriend
whatever that is companion that's number
one because that's the person here's the
difference between a a like a partner
and a a friend your friend goes home to
their home you go to your home a
companion or partner you probably live
with them that means you are so overly
exposed to that person and you need to
make Dam am well sure that that person
is not contaminating your life you can
still love them but you can step back
and look at there's a problem here that
this person's stuff is contaminating my
life and it's a hard thing to do for
folks because this is why you're with
someone it's like okay I'm with Evie but
you know Evie is this and Evie is that
and so you start to blend my identity
with my behavior and then over the time
too you normalize the things I do if I'm
a bad actor well Evie didn't mean it
she's always hotheaded you know she's
this but she did all these nice things
for me here and then what we do is we
miss stuff that's why it's easier for
you to look at somebody else's
relationship and be like hey problem
here problem here problem here because
you are not
tainted by the emotional aspect of being
tied to that person you're able to look
at them objectively this is why byon
it's easy to give other people advice I
can see the red flags in the issues in
this person when you're in it you can't
it's hard so I would also venture to say
people may not like this if you're with
someone and there are people around you
that you know legitimately care and love
you and they're telling you hey not the
best thing for you I would say please
listen because they are seeing something
that you might not be seeing do you
think people just tend to know like in
their gut they tend to know but they
justify the person's behavior and they
almost kind of Gaslight themselves to
some degree they say well maybe not
maybe that's fine maybe they are a
friend maybe they they're just doing
that for my best interest whereas really
that bad actor is acting in their
interests and kind of gaslighting you
and then you're gaslighting
yourself I think
it's one thing is you don't you don't go
from zero to 100 overnight when you're
in a relationship or you're with around
people who are like that in in the
beginning you don't see it right
everyone's got their best Behavior but
over time you'll start to see little
like sneak peeks little
previews and it's those previews you
want to pay attention to we like to give
people the benefit of the doubt we
listen to the excuses that they give us
and you know there's this ancient Greek
saying that says don't listen to your
opponent look at them it will tell you
everything and when I say look at them
look at what people do I need you to
drum out what they're telling you I I
need you to drum out their I am sorries
because they probably are they've hurt
you and they are probably genuinely
sorry that's not the point the point is
when do you want to learn your lesson in
the beginning or at the end and at the
end sometimes it's very very very hard
you know I have a community and I
started after I did the book and when
people started writing in I said you
know what let me do this community I'll
call it Beyond bulletproof and whoever
signs up and it you know two years in
have 800 members and we a lot of people
come in with different scenarios and
they'll come in with and it's almost
always the scenario they come in with if
there's something like this it's
somebody that they're tied
to that's just sinking them sinking them
and sometimes they're the Sinker and
they think it's the other
person so sometimes you're the bad actor
and you don't even realize it so you
need to figure out two things
am I the one doing things that's not
just hurting myself but other people but
I've Justified it to
myself in pursuit of whatever
self-interest I have or am I tied to
someone who's pulling me down I'm going
to tell you something Stephen I sat
across people who did a lot of different
things some serious crimes some not so
serious every single person sold it to
themsel why they did what they
did we're sellers I can justify anything
too myself if I want to they were
turning themselves into I guess victims
of situations why I do that well you
know good people make bad choices good
people make mistakes the problem is
sometimes the consequences of those
mistakes they last but you can't vouch
for anybody cuz you don't know who
people are behind closed doors you don't
and two anybody is capable of anything
at any given moment in time if given the
opportunity if if you understand that
you will not be
surprised or shocked by anything or
anyone it's not that it's a morbid view
of people it's understanding people are
malleable they're susceptible some more
than others some may have a either
stronger Integrity or more I don't even
think it's Integrity it's just a
stronger hold on themselves to say yes I
won't do this no I won't do this um and
then some people are a bit more
malleable like it's easier to get to
them it's e EAS e to manipulate them
it's easier to mold them to do other
things it's easier to get them to sway
in a
Direction but if you understand that
then you you understand human behavior
there's so many things of interest there
I remember if we go back to the top of
your point around your environment and
people having a huge impact on your life
I remember reading a study by a guy
called Michael hman and another study
done done at Harvard University where
they showed that even if at work you sit
next to someone who is toxic and does
like bad practice I at work your chance
of doing bad practice yourself radically
increases and in some cases that's by
25% and in other environments that's up
to 100% your your probability of then
getting a disciplinary against you just
because you sat next to that person
radically increases and this is I think
reinforce is the case that your
environment is has such a powerful and
profound impact on You For Better or For
Worse and I think the for better part is
also worth pausing on because if you're
sitting with and you're around people
that are lifting you and elevating you
and making you believe that the world is
valuable and you can do anything as I've
experienced in my own life at times it's
crazy that that almost like rewies the
neurons in your brain to some degree how
do you pick people like how do you
differentiate on your own who's good and
who's not for you you know what this is
a really interesting
question Vibes and everything else in my
life I'll tell you data science or this
or here's my framework but there's some
things in life which I think your
intuition and your Vibes if you've
developed the skill of tuning in enough
is the best indicator and if you if you
look back through my career at 18
dropping out of University even at 60
not going to school 20 leaving a
business that was going really well and
then at 27 quitting a business that was
all over the world and about to do this
major second IPO all this stuff in all
of those moments the most important
thing wasn't my prefrontal cortex it
wasn't logic or facts or figures or the
money it was purely this feeling inside
me that I no longer wanted to do this
thing because it didn't feel good
anymore and in the moment you look
insane but when you zoom out on a
person's life who is driven by that
voice inside like really driven by it
you go oh my God what a life that they
have amazing look at look at the
girlfriend they have and the place they
live and the stuff they have and the job
they have they're so lucky but I
actually think it starts with that like
courage to tune into that voice inside
so that's my answer it's just pure Vibes
people for me are vi just don't feel
good don't want to go and then careers
I've had as the year where I go I don't
like doing this anymore that's that's me
done
and there's another part which is on the
other end of that is uncertainty because
in all those situations there was really
no plan B there was no good plan B
that's so interesting so when you talk
about Vibes it's your intuition yeah
it's your instinct I'm Bar None and it's
when when I'm around people like anybody
around they give off something and what
we don't do is we don't listen to what
we feel you can still do business or
talk to someone but when you feel that
and I do too I feel my way even honestly
even whose podcast I'm going to
do I'm like I don't know if I like this
Vibe or I don't know if I like this I
just feel it I feel like who do I want
to be around and even something like
whose podcast do I want to be
on because it's I'm bringing myself into
a space right mhm that person's space
it's like it's all it's all
interconnected so it's like I'm choosing
what's spaces to go into and if you're
right if it you don't have to articulate
it to yourself and that's where we go
wrong often because it's like somebody
comes in they say hi to you and
immediately you're like I just I don't
like this but they didn't say anything
to you they didn't do anything to you
you can't articulate why and you know
what we do we dismiss it we dismiss it
oh it's me oh I shouldn't this no it's
you know what it's you're you've got two
brains right this one and the gut that's
what they call it the your gut instincts
listen to it always and I think going
back to people who are steady you're
talking about what makes you steady I
think a big part of what helps make you
steady is trusting in yourself you have
to trust in yourself like believe in
yourself and when I say that I mean
trust that what you're
feeling is is is true like listen to it
and not let other people talk you out of
things
or being able to say I feel this way I
don't know why but I'm going to trust it
and almost if not all the time you look
back it's like I knew better I felt this
I kind of sensed this I didn't listen to
myself and if you're wrong so you're
wrong and that goes back to uncertainty
people are afraid to be
wrong why because of what other people
might say about me because how I will
look to the world and
you know from there from that conclusion
you then jump to and then they will
reject me and then I'll be alone and
then I'll be lonely then I'll die that's
kind of like The Logical the downward
step I always find that interesting I
had this conversation with my girlfriend
yesterday which is it's interesting how
one belief is actually connected to like
a string of Downstream beliefs that then
go to he doesn't love me and this is
such a random tangent but me and my
girlfriend were like scheduling our
calendar for the future that we're going
to be a part for a little while so um
she wanted to like schedule the dates
and I was really busy with something and
so I wasn't like paying as much
attention to the scheduling conversation
and she got a little bit upset and I
found it so interesting cuz the fact
that I was half paying attention to the
scheduling conversation actually told
her that I'm not interested in her which
means I don't love her and and so
afterwards I turned her and I said can
you explain to me like how I made you
feel in that situation and I went why
why every time why why and we got right
down there you don't love me and it all
started with this little thing at the
top and I think the same here where if I
do something and it goes wrong there's
like a downstream consequence in
someone's subconscious that leads them
to
think then I'm going to be exiled from
the tribe do you know what I mean that's
like at the root of it that's why I
think fear you know when we you talk so
much about fear and becoming
Fearless living fearlessly because I
don't think you can be Fearless okay
living fearlessly what's the
distinction fearlessly
means I see things despite being afraid
I'm going to try I'm going to do my best
to like live in it right and embrace it
to some degree whatever you're afraid of
if it's something you want to do follow
it and then figure out a way to to do it
but it's okay to be afraid and uncertain
during the process I don't know when I'm
uncertain too I'm thinking all right I
can figure this out you don't fail until
you stop I I look at it that way like
even if you're failing incrementally
overall you won't fail until you're just
like all right I'm done and as long as
you're done cuz you want to be done
that's cool but you don't want to be
done
because you keep failing or you're
confused or you're you're you're leaving
because somebody other people are
telling you shouldn't be doing it it's
just because you decided I don't want to
be on this path anymore I think it's it
always has to come back to you I like
I've always been in the school of
thought cuz and I love my family but
they were always telling me do this and
especially cuz my parents were immigrant
everything was job
security get a good job get a good job 9
to 5 get a good job don't try to do
anything else you know because they
struggled so much and so when I tried to
do things outside of that element they
were afraid they were confused they
thought I was nuts even when I started
the NYPD they were not they were not
happy at all they're like what is this
girls don't do these types of
jobs even in my community uh they you
know I was laughed at you know people
people kind of are like look at Yanni
was my dad's name look at Yan's daughter
look look how silly she's she is you
know so this is kind of like those
moments where
you going back to you just have to do
what you feel because afterward you're
going to be pissed off as
hell because you listen to other people
and on that point of gut instinct which
you mentioned a second ago is there a
way do you think to train and develop
your gut instinct cuz you strike me as
someone that has a pretty astute gut
instinct that you trust but some people
don't and what ends up happening is they
just end up living in regret that they
didn't listen to their gut instinct and
they you know like they only find out
after the fact after they've been
mistreated so I'm wondering if there's a
way to like cultivate a better
relationship with one's intuition and
gut instinct yeah stop asking everybody
what they
think when I have a really big decision
to make like really big I don't I don't
tally people in fact the bigger it is
the bigger the consequences or the
bigger the the pain or the trauma or
whatever it is I go in because they're
going to confuse
me that's what you do you stop asking
people and if you're going to ask
somebody let's say it's a health
decision you're going to go to a doctor
or you're going to go to someone who has
specific knowledge about a decision you
are trying to make you're not going to
go to Mom you're not going to go to Dad
you're not going to go to your brother
you're not going to go to people who
don't have that who although they love
you their opinions are going to send you
like a pingpong ball that's how you
become unsteady and you can start small
you can start small and when I say start
small is start making decisions without
running them by anybody what to eat
where to go where to vacation just you
can start small it's just allow yourself
to be the decision maker allow yourself
to be in the driver's seat but what we
do is we invite people in the car we're
like yeah yeah you could drive my car no
problem they get in the driver's seat we
put them in the driver's seat then we're
in the passenger seat or we might even
get kicked to the back seat and then
we're all pissed off like why are you
driving like that why are you going that
way that's not really where I want to go
then drive the car and stop inviting
everybody in to drive it for you and
then be pissed off when they don't take
it the direction you want to go if
you're going to be pissed off always be
pissed off at
yourself because it's like I chose I
chose wrong but I chose that is how you
build confidence you know going back to
law enforcement cuz I teach it one of
the predominant trains that people in
law enforcement have is um they are they
have high confidence because of one
reason they are they make
decisions they are good decision makers
because when you're out on the street
and you're dealing with somebody or
situation there's nobody to look over to
and say hey how should I handle this you
have to make a choice and you have to
go making decisions is going to increase
your confidence and your ability in
yourself even if they're the wrong
decisions that's not the point be a
decision maker in your life that is
going to move you forward that is going
to increase your belief in yourself and
your trust in yourself and you're going
to get comfortable too huh I read that
wrong you know what I learned here I
should have read it this way and so this
is when you bring in the Vibes and a
little bit of tactical strategy because
you're less emotional that's another F
that's another hindrance when you are
emotional you are a bad decision
maker when you are in a space of emotion
make no decision avoid don't text don't
call don't I always say just remove
yourself and go in go quiet when you can
go quiet and be in that Stillness of you
it will come to you over time and you
know what's another great thing and when
you look at resilient people they don't
have all the answers and they don't need
to have all the answers I don't have all
the answers but I don't need them to be
okay and this is where you Embrace that
uncertainty you don't have to have all
the answers and that by itself is
powerful like you don't need to figure
it out you don't need to know what to do
right away leave it sit in it be in it
then when it's time
you move
through you're going to end up getting a
lot of unsolicited advice though you
know this is we all do we get when we're
making trying to make those big life
decisions we'll have someone who we
didn't even ask them but people will be
chipping in telling you what to think of
yourself and there's an element almost I
guess of being able to develop stronger
boundaries in your life so that you can
keep the outside world outside okay so
then how about you stop telling
everybody your
business why do they need to know what
you're thinking about doing here or
there
why because when you open your mouth to
share things you're going to get advice
so this goes back to you do I open my
mouth or do I stay quiet because if I
open my mouth and I start talking people
are going to start sharing and so when
people like oh they don't respect my
boundaries you're the one who offered it
if you want to create boundaries you
start with them I don't share or like if
I'm like for example I'm working on a
project or deal nobody knows until my
deal is done why I don't know how it's
going to go I don't want other people's
opinions I'll have the opinions of
whoever I'm dealing with specifically in
a deal if it's a project right I'm going
to talk to them but I don't want other
people confusing me people confuse you
good intentions but when you've got too
many voices in your
head that's why you can't trust yourself
because you've got all these other
voices you can't hear your
own so I know if I share something with
someone they're going to share their
thoughts and maybe I don't want
them I stay I will tell you I usually
stay quiet until I'm ready to reveal
something also I'll stay quiet until
it's either done like it's happened
because so many times you'll do
something and it falls through and it
you're like you don't want to have to
explain it to other people it's like why
do I need to put myself in that
situation where I always talking I think
talking talking talking talking although
I think communication is good but
sometimes it's
oversharing and overp putting our stuff
out there how are you going to have
boundaries when you yourself violate
those boundaries like you just make
yourself like open borders everybody
come in if you're a bit more methodical
with who you share what with and why I
think that that's okay but when you're
like literally like tallying
everybody even if it's like what job to
do do like for example there's a woman
in the the community I have and she's
trying to figure out what career to do
and she was kind of like my mom says
this my dad says this grown woman and
and it was coming from a genuine place
and I like this but I don't like that
and she was ping ponging everywhere
she's like Evie what's you know can you
can you share something with me I was
like stop I was like stop talking to
everybody why are you telling everybody
to give you advice I was like I want you
to think about how insane what you're
doing is you are going to another human
being to ask them what job what career
you should do a job that you're going to
wake up every morning to get out of bed
to go do day after day after day and
you're tallying and pulling other people
who are not going to be doing that
you're going to be doing that on what
you should do do you see a little bit of
the Ridiculousness of how you are asking
somebody else you're the one who has to
get up every morning and go do it if you
say that to her and you ask her to
justify why she's doing that she might
say well I'm just not sure I just wanted
to hear other people's opinions I just
don't know you can she can you can do
that but if the question is how do I
learn to trust myself you trust yourself
more by listening to yourself more and
asking other people less that that that
is how you get there clearly she doesn't
trust herself though no and then maybe
maybe just the circle around you it's
also to you know and I don't know if
you've been able to do this over the
years slowly I've also accumulated
people around me over it takes time
where they're trusted people where I can
go to for specific things if I need to
because I like the way they move through
life uh I I think that they they handle
themselves well maybe they do well in
business they're thoughtful I like their
character and so over time you can also
I don't want to say accumulate but you
can kind kind of start to pull folks
like that in takes time because people
are going to come into your life in in
different moments and when you find
those precious
gems keep them a bit close and then you
can start to accumulate a a circle and
it's not people you go to every day it's
just people that you can pick up the
phone say Hey Stephen it's heavie can I
run something by you sure eie no problem
what do you want to run by
me you can create those too and at least
for me I've been able over time slowly
because it's not going to happen
overnight and then sometimes people come
into that space and sometimes you say
want to push you a little further out
it's not working out anymore that woman
in that example what does she ultimately
need to do cuz I can imagine in her
world she's not certain about any path
so she's got 20% certainty about going
in this direction 30% certainty about
going in that direction apparently and
maybe 40% about going in that direction
and then the rest is just a little bit
of confusion and procrastination and
fear what does she actually have to do
she just has to make a choice and do it
pick one and do it there's no there's no
perfect choice eie but there isn't
there's no there's no there's no way to
know how it's going to pan out there's
no way to know just choose choose
something choose something and even if
it's wrong you you know find peace and
like I chose it was wrong but you know
what I'm not stuck here
that's the other thing like you know you
can change your decisions just because
you choose something it doesn't mean
you're stuck there we have the ability
to get out you do you can find ways to
get out and say I made a wrong
choice it's okay you also have to be
okay with it the interesting thing
within our personal lives that I think
causes such procrastination versus
business is in business especially if
you're in a startup if you don't make a
choice or even like I imagine in the
Secret Service like if you don't make a
choice there is an iMed iate consequence
whereas in your life you can kind of
meander for a year 3 years 5 years and
just sit and procrastinate whereas like
in a secret service situation when Trump
is being shot
at Meandering for five years as a secret
service agent I imagine isn't possible
so that is something what will help with
that is it's something called it's
called instrumental it's called sense
making it's understanding a person's
motivational mindset an instrumental
person in certain jobs can yield More
instrumental people this is where I am
doing something where I am task oriented
this just happened so I have to respond
this way I'm going to do that I'm going
to do this like I'm looking at the
overall what is my next step then my
next step then my next step when you are
instrumental you are
non-emotional I'm not in the emotion of
it so although like if you bring a a
protect getting shot right although it
can seem emotional yes it is but in that
moment at least through training it's
shots being fired
jump in front cover Shield evacuate you
run through those things that's being
instrumental right which is having like
a a framework for what to do next you're
functioning you're you're being tasked
you're task oriented I'm going to do
this I'm going to do this I'm going to
do this you have a business decision to
make let's say something bad's happening
in the business okay how do I stop this
hemorrhaging I'm going to do this I'm
going to do this I'm going to do this
that's
instrumental on the flip side of that is
something called identity when I am
identity I am oh my God I can't believe
this is happening this is horrible I
don't know what to do I'm confused I'm
really upset about this I can't believe
I'm finding myself here now I'm in that
Purgatory space I'm not doing anything
I'm also emotional so I can't think
clearly and I'm not able to make moves
so how did they train you as a secret
service agent to be have that
instrumental mindset you do action
action everything action make a choice
make a choice make a choice move go go
go do you know what's interesting
everything was about movement don't be
still even when you're getting shot at
don't be still they actually teach you
to run in zigzags it's actually really
hard to shoot someone if they're not
perfectly stilled I mean we would shoot
paper targets you miss you're stressed
out your emotion you're looking at this
guy shooting that person's shooting am I
shooting like [__] you know cuz
everyone's looking at each other's
scores and you know if you don't shoot
well they're going to be like I don't
want to take you out on the next raid
with me right so you you've got that
Adrenaline Rush it's a hard thing to do
um but they teach you like hey if you're
getting shot at don't sit there like a
dummy move run and while you're running
run like zigzag throw people off move
and I and I've taken that premise of
always being Kinesis Kinesis is a Greek
move Kinesis move move always
move create momentum no matter how stuck
you feel and I I follow this actually in
my own just in my own life just move
don't sit still I'm not saying don't
grieve don't be sad don't feel it's okay
but don't put yourself in a place where
you're completely stagnant cuz that's
where you get stuck and you don't move
and you get comfortable and you become
afraid if you can just create movement
I'm going to create a little bit of
movement I'm going to make a decision
here and then another one another one if
you can just stay in Kinesis movement
you'll be able to move through whatever
it is you're going through I remember I
interviewed Joo willick and he said
pretty much a very similar thing to me
he said in the SAS or the the Navy Seals
when you're lost you're not going to get
any new information if you just stay
where you are so you have to just move
even if you don't know which direction
movement generates information which
then can inform a better decision and
you're kind of saying the same thing
there which is if you're stuck you need
to just get into Kinesis make a decision
start moving and then you'll learn at
least something you learn something even
if it means reaching out to someone it's
just do something that's helping you
create some type of progress when when
you don't move when we don't have
Kinesis like this is where you get stuck
in that emotional depravity of like I
feel horrible this is happening like if
you can find ways to move out of your
problem as bad as it feels don't bathe
in it like don't take a bath in
it feel it but like to a point and you
know what else too you also don't have
to figure it out you don't have to
figure out why did this happen or why
did this person do it sometimes there's
nothing to figure out sometimes it just
is sometimes there's Brilliance and
freedom and just letting go and saying
this happened I don't know why it
happened and I don't need to know why
but I can figure out how I need to move
forward Kinesis how am I going to move
out of this what do I go to next there's
no sometimes the more you sit and you
analyze this stuff the more pain you put
yourself through you're rethinking
you're retelling you're
reliving and especially if you're
reliving things that somebody else did
to you like the pain and you know you
ever have those moments where you start
to relive I should have done this I
should have said this do you know it
actually activates the same part of the
brain that's activated when you do
cocaine so it becomes addictive yeah
makes you high think about that as even
though it's negative feelings you're
like yeah you're having this whole thing
happen and it's like I always look at I
want you know I always look at is what
I'm doing leading me to a to the path I
want to go to if it's not then I try to
relinquish I'm like listen it's okay to
feel bad but you will feel less bad if
you can keep that momentum going being
stuck and in that place of victimhood or
fear or procrastination do you think
that victimhood is
addictive I think it becomes a
habit I don't think most people want to
be there if you ask anybody nobody's
going to say yeah I love it but what
happens is it becomes a habit and it's a
pattern of behavior and a pattern and a
way of thinking that you become used to
what's the reward in that habit cycle
then I don't know if there's a reward
and I don't know if people think about
it they just get stuck and they repeat
the same thing because they're afraid
and uncertain of if they change it what
will happen you know you see this in
um in relationships where you know and
it's not just domestic violence but but
you'll see it in these really imbalanced
relationships where you will see one
person who's very dominant and one
person the dominant person will be
somebody who's very high power in
control setting the agenda but not in a
good way and then you'll see another
person who's very low power weak
submissive avoid it the reason why that
relationship works is one is here so the
other has to be here they they both
can't be high powered cuz they'll clash
and so that's why when you see a lot of
these imbalanced relationships or
severely imbalanced when it's domestic
violence and it can be man towards woman
woman towards man or same sex you will
see that it's one person who's up here
High control and then the other person
goes submissive avoidant this person
down here is just trying to keep the
peace I don't want conflict I don't want
to upset them I don't want to set them
off but what you do is you go deeper and
deeper and deeper and the more you try
to keep the peace the more you're
submissive and avoidant and uncertain
what does the other person do the higher
up they go because you just help create
this imbalance this further spread of
power in the relationship they become
louder stronger dogmatic demanding
rigid and then that happens over time
then you find yourself in the space
we're like how did I end up here and
this person's here and then that's one
of those examples of where another
person keeps you literally suppressed so
how are you going to trust yourself and
your voice and make good decisions if
you have such a an individual around you
and that's another thing that keeps a
person pushed down and
suppressed as a woman's secret service
agent when you first went into service I
imagine there was a sort of
institutional sexism just thinking about
that era that time where people would
look at you and think well you know as a
woman there wasn't as many women in the
Secret Service
so maybe she's someone that I can push
down maybe she's someone who I can make
the odd comment to maybe I could create
a p power Dynamic where I'm above her
did that ever happen and if it did
happen how did you deal with it so
that's like it's the truth is that stuff
does happen right and it it could happen
I remember Barbara Pierce Bush went to
Tanzania I'm the assistant detail leader
which means I was like the head person
and then my boss from headquarters came
but he wasn't there yet and we were
having a briefing and you protecting the
Bush family I was protecting I was the
uh assistant detail leader for Barbara
Pierce Bush so George Bush Jr's daughter
one of the twins it's Jenna and Barbara
I had Barbara so she went there to do
like philanthropic work Aid and we were
going to some really like a not safe
areas right a lot of vulnerabilities a
lot of concerns so I set up the briefing
I'm the person
in charge and and uh agents are coming
from different parts of the country to
help supplement some some agents I've
never met so I remember one guy walks in
and he's like oh hey hi so this is in
the hotel room we're having the briefing
and no one's there yet it's just him and
I hi you know how are you okay he's like
hey you know the the intern staff room
is down the hall if you want to go you
know find it I can show you so when he
saw me he made an assumption I was staff
intern you know I was part of the the
Entourage but not an actual
agent and so I'm like actually no I'm
I'm EV I'm the assistant detail leader
here U you know thank you for joining
what office are you from so now could I
be pissed off sure did he make an
assumption based on what he saw sure
those are moments where like I don't
care really no 0% no who looked like a
big dummy afterward he did not me it
does become I'm annoying but this is
like where you got to be like this is
where you have to pick your battles you
can't fight everybody oh my God Stephen
imagine how exhausted you'd be if you f
you fought every buffoon came your way
some I mean some people literally have
designed their life to fight buffoons
right and I'm busy I have things to do
think about how much time and energy
they take and waste from you and that's
talk about a life of being stagnant and
doing nothing because you're too busy
fighting everybody choose and fight
strategically so if it's something I
need to fight
fight I'll give you another
example after September 11th the the US
Secret Service field office was in the
World Trade Center 7 so when the towers
collapsed we lost our whole office so
immediately the Secret Service New York
office they were trying to find a new
home so they found office space in
Brooklyn and you know obviously in a
place like that like the office space
needs to be designed a specific way for
like what we're doing again non-descript
nobody needs to nowh there but you're
designing it to look and feel a certain
way to get things done I'm an agent
now I get called into the Sachs office
which is the head boss and he
says I need you to design this office
for me work with headquarters get us
nice photos make this look like our new
home um you know we have a lot of
briefings here I'm going to put you in
charge of this can you do this
okay yes sir there's 250 agents in the
office I get pulled for interior design
Duty HGTV there we go so I said all
right no problem so I did I'm like I'm
going to do it I'm going to own it and I
remember some of the women were like
aren't you I'm like no worries I was
like I'm going to do the best damn job I
can so I did took me months I made a
nice office I was done with it fast
forward that same boss put out an open
bid new polygraph position there's only
two polygraph examiners in the New York
office 30 throughout the whole Us Secret
Service a spot comes open which is rare
everybody put your name in whoever wants
it everybody puts their name in people
senior to me put their name in and then
one of the senior uh polygraph guys was
like why don't you put your name I'm
like dude no way no one's going to
confess to me they're going to see me
they're going to high five each other
I'm never putting my name in he's like
put your name in you don't know I wait
till like the last half hour before they
call it a bid closes and I threw my name
in I'm like it's not going to happen
guess what week later I get a phone call
come to my office same boss sits me down
he's like I had x amount of people put
in maybe 30 or so people he's like I
picked you and he said do you know why I
said no sir he's like I gave you that
assignment to design the office and fix
it and at no point did you [__] or
complain or say anything to me and in
fact you did a great job thank you this
is your assignment put in I need to
understand here something which is on
one hand I've got to be protecting my
boundaries right don't let people [__]
with me on the other
hand don't make someone's Prejudice my
problem and don't [__] and complain are
these mutually exclus are these like two
separate ideas or is it like context
dependent because you know if if I'm
protecting my boundaries my boss calls
me in and tells me that I'm going to be
doing the interior as job potentially
because I'm a woman is not protecting my
boundaries in that situation going [__]
you and calling him out I could have I
could have but I assure you I would not
have gotten that position I also knew
somebody has to do it so he happened to
pick me maybe he likes my sense of style
Maybe not maybe because of the way I
look maybe because I'm a woman I don't
know you know what's funny he didn't
know this I actually studied Fine Art in
college H
so so I was I wasn't that appalled and
and I also looked at you know what too I
also looked at the opportunity because
now I got to work with people in
headquarters that I never would have
gotten exposed to and like all the
historic archive stuff so there was a
part of it I was like oh this is kind of
cool now could I have argued it I could
have but then I guess you choose I chose
not to long term it worked out for me
there's also times where I don't know
Stephen like you can't care so hard
people are going to slight you and like
h you choose how much you're going to
care about how much they slighted
you and I have noticed that the more I
care the more of a detriment it is to me
and the less I care the better I perform
overall all I'm saying is just choose
strategically don't choose just cuz
you're pissed cuz if you're doing it cuz
you're
pissed now you're being ruled by emotion
and anytime you make choices by emotion
you're going to make bad choices bar the
for a lot of people the action they take
following a situation like that is so
quick and almost like so automatic that
they yeah that they just and then they
and they might like relax later and go
[__] why did I say that I've R my
life that's why I said it that's why
you're easily manipulated if you are the
person and please know that I was that
person if if you are that person where
you are just reactive reactive reactive
you're going to sink your ship
completely it means you're not thinking
through things it means you are just you
have no self-regulation I self-regulate
don't don't get me wrong there's times
where I'm like I'm going to burn this
bridge down all the way and I don't care
I'm good with it so long as I am
choosing clear-headed I'm going to burn
this bridge
down but I'm choosing to do it I'm not
doing it reactively I'm not doing it
because I've lost control I'm doing it
cuz I made that choice I'm going to burn
this bridge and this relationship and
I'm 100% okay with it do it but make
sure you're doing
it not the monkey inside your brain
exactly how do I train the monkey inside
my brain over time because you said you
didn't you used to be less regulated
right you used to make more emotional
decisions and over time you've come to
be able to make those very
rational like prefrontal cortex
decisions and vibes okay and vibes
I shut up I started to shut
up I just started to be quiet when I'm
pissed I go quiet I don't say anything
like when you that I think that's the
biggest thing I learned to be quiet I
just learned to shut my mouth not to
reveal your upcoming book but I know
that one of the 100 um principles in
that book is called 100 Rules of
Engagement shut the [__] up rule number
one and the reason why is not to be
vulgar it's because because it helped me
so much because the more you talk just
when you talk in general the more you
talk the more you reveal the more people
know the more you solicit the more
people share with you the more you get
confused the more indecisive you are the
more the more the more the
more and when I learned to stop
self-regulate not to shoot my mouth off
because I was offended you can only get
offended first of all if you allow
yourself to get offended there are times
that people are going to cross you and
disrespect you yes yes but like how
often can you be offended and
also there's times like who
cares like I don't have to have
everybody's respect that's another
exhausting thing I have to you need to
respect me and you need to disrespect me
he disrespected me and I'm Greek it's a
big thing like oh but that that's going
to wear you out like and you don't need
it there were times where maybe I worked
with people who I could tell I was not
wanted I remember once NYPD and I
started off in NYPD NYPD Queen's
narcotics unit sorry guys this a true
story and um I was sent to partner up
with Queen's narcotics to take down this
guy who was doing child porn and
counterfeit money in addition to
drugs so I get sent to the task force
this is a hardcore task force within the
net NYPD I show up with agents I'm the
lead agent in charge and I show up and
they were not happy to see see me not at
all and I remember walking in I'm I
don't know how it is now I'm sure it's
not but you know women's calendars
Centerfolds all over the place I walked
in personally I didn't care but I was
just like I think it's going to be a
problem not me them them for
me and um I could tell that they didn't
want me there they started leaving
information out of briefings they would
ignore me when we were at doing the
search warrants like really tactical
things that they were doing that were
wrong and this was a ring of people that
we were trying to take down so the first
time and then plus my team seeing this
so I don't say anything my team doesn't
say anything my team's all guys and
thankfully I had like really respectful
agents with me but these guys are seeing
it they're seeing how they're treating
me by proxy them no one's saying
anything they're disregarding us um and
the reason why we were asked to be there
is because we're experts in counterfeit
we're also experts in child
porn so we do the arrest it's done but
then there's a subsequent arrest that
happens and we show up for that same
thing like literally ignoring you like
you're not even there we do the arrest
we do the prince and at one point they
even leave the precinct and we're like
where did they go they just completely
ditched us and I I remember going back
to my group
leader
Carl and uh I go to Carl I said Hey
listen if these guys call again cuz
there were more arrests I was like don't
send me out there and he's like why I'm
like it's very clear they don't want me
there I said I don't want to fight but
I'm not also going to sit and stand my
ground and put myself somewhere I don't
want to be I don't like the way it feels
I don't want to be there it's bad for
the team send a
dude send a dude don't send me back out
there I won't go is that letting them
win
though no cuz they'll be at the office
with their posters up of these women and
they'll be like yeah we got rid of her
knock yourselves out I this is also
where you choose what circles want to be
in it was a circle I chose I didn't want
to be in you can't change a mindset and
culture of people like if that's also
also think about it it wasn't one person
I was up against it was the whole group
so now I'm going to come in and bulldo
my way into this what group mentality I
think this is where I really learned to
navigate and you have to be good at it
like where to fight where to walk away
from and I was like I don't need to be
here I don't need to prove anything to
anybody I've earned it I'm like half of
you yahoos couldn't become special agent
if you you know applied like it's a hard
thing to become to go from a cop to do
that so with that I was like no I don't
need to and it's actually the only time
I ever did that cuz it was that
egregious it was egregious and I thought
it was a danger to me and also a danger
to the other special agents like I felt
like I had a responsibility and I'm like
if I'm working with the Queen's
narcotics narcotics task force and
they're not communicating they're
withholding information someone's going
to get shot I was like and that's on
them not on me but I'm also not going to
going to partake a lot of people will
listen to this and they'll relate to the
feeling of being subtly
disrespected on a recurring basis by
individuals in their life whether it's
their romantic partner whether it's a
colleague at work whether it's someone
else that they interact with and so many
people I've I've seen this in some of
the questions I get sent in are Keen to
understand how to deal with someone that
is disrespecting you you know cuz I I
guess there's a train of thought that
would say when they disrespect you you
kind of argue and engage and try and
Shout them down and try and win but if
you are being subtly disrespected in
your own life by someone what do you
recommend that they do okay who is it so
if it's my partner so I'm married I have
a husband he's another special agent if
he does something where I feel
disrespected because I care so deeply
about that relationship and the
Integrity of that
relationship
him I might argue it not to argue but
because I want to keep a good healthy
relationship now don't get me wrong
being in a relationship you also let a
lot of things go right so it's it's
again what am I willing to let go what's
I don't want to say silly but what's
like really not important and where you
know what's like hey I want to address
this with you and this is why so for me
that takes hierarchy who your partner is
I when we talked about that before Bar
None that is really such a Crux of how
well you're going to do in life they're
either going to raise you up or they're
going to sink you down so that matters
and I will do my best not to be
belligerent when I'm having that
discussion
right now everybody else falls to the
side for me cuz because I understand the
value of being with a person and you're
with that person 90% of the time and
that's an investment in that
relationship but aside from everybody
else mostly everybody else I can let it
go I always look at are you worth my
time and energy I'm busy so do I need to
stop and do I need to address you okay
so let's play out a scenario okay and in
this scenario I'm going to make herse PE
so we work together right we work
together in a call center this is
actually something that happened to me
when I was in the early sort of phase of
my career where I was working in call
centers so I was like answering phones
and doing that kind of thing and selling
things on the phone Etc and I remember
being sat next to someone who was like
subtly disrespecting me all the time and
at this point in my life I wasn't in any
position of authority to do anything
about it I've actually it's funny
because that one instance has completely
shap shaped my leadership perspective
and my real deep belief that I have a
responsibility as the founder of the
company or CEO to go in search of and
clamp out all disrespect in an
organization that is happening beneath
me because you're often powerless at
work to do anything about it and I felt
that I couldn't stop this lady that sat
next to me disrespecting me
because I wasn't her boss so now that I
have the responsibility it's a big thing
for me that we don't employ [__] in
[__] and there's actually a recent
example where someone was in our
business for a total
of a couple of hours and actually my
previous company there was a guy that
walked in during his initiation he went
like this and walked off day one of his
job he put both metal fingers up after
his like initiation where you iation we
basically asked them questions asked
them what they're into who they are put
both middle fingers up and walked off
was the last time anyone saw them in the
building and it because it was a it was
a sign of a character issue that would
would lead to further
disrespect so if I'm sat next to you at
work eie we're colleagues and you you
come in in the morning and I go oh first
time you've been on time and then you
you do some work and I go not bad
considering your standard and then
you're in a meeting and you're talking
and I just interrupt you
and you submit a piece of work and I and
I look at it and I turn my nose up and
you hear me talking [__] about you
behind your back when people aren't
there me criticizing your work and how
you are and your delivery how are you
going to deal with that situation so I
would deal with a specific situation not
the whole thing I would pick a moment
where I have tangible facts and I would
say can I speak to you for a moment okay
so we're in a group we're all on the
calls on in my call center I'm not going
to do in front of other people okay fine
so this is what happens I this is not
actually what happened in my life did
you do this no no no no F me I didn't do
anything I just wanted the money I was
trying to just survive could feed myself
I was going to open my mouth but I'm
we're in a call center and I've
disrespected you for a while now and
then I Turn to You and I go and you
you've just come off a call and I go you
know what you should have you could have
done that better you didn't close that
properly e and I you know next time you
do a call and you get stuck like that
just speak to me and I'll take the call
off you just tell them that your
colleague will handle it and I carry
them with my day what are you going to
do in that moment I might not do
anything well it also depends because
you said I didn't do anything I was
trying to feed myself and that plays a
role like where are you I think part of
it is also is I was very young and I
didn't have the tools to address that
situation the problem is the situation
made coming to work a misery yeah and
this version of myself irrespective of
my financial situation would have and
even today because even today okay I
have money I have security but I'm still
playing at a certain level where there's
disrespect potential I actually have a
really good example that I could never
share as someone that I work with who's
extremely successful we work on a
particular project together and I found
out that this was happening and they
were basically threatened by me because
for a variety of reasons this this is
what I was told by an an intermediary
and I chose a moment when I heard that
they had just disrespected me within a
short period of time and I walked in in
front of a in front of a group of people
and I said to them I said I I heard what
you did out there in the hallway when I
wasn't there and um in the future if you
want to say something to me I'd really
appreciate it you said it to my face
instead of behind my back and this and
it's crazy what
happened it's crazy what happened this
really big tough powerful individual
turned into a toddler in front of my
eyes oh what no I didn't say and I left
the room and then it never happened
again but I think that that's okay too
but you also came to that place like
it's like I think each person has to
choose and if you choose to do it you
can do it now the fact that you did in
front of people but what you did that
was smart is you were able to speak as
upset as you were you were able to speak
and articulate yourself clearly yeah and
it had just happened and you were able
to say what just specifically happened
here that's the difference cuz sometimes
it's like I feel like you treat me this
way or I think you did this or it seems
like that those are very ambiguous so if
you're going to confront someone like
you did you did it the smart way cuz you
picked a specific moment you said
specifically out on the hallway you just
did this you said X Y and Z if you want
to say something to me always feel free
to come say it to me that's why I also
think it worked and you're also in a
place where you feel like you can do
that I think that that's okay too but
you also took a risk and you're like
uncertainty like I'll burn this down
yeah because on that project I'm not the
one that's got the power I can still be
fired from that particular project but
you chose you're like Let It Burn yeah
cuz I I don't want to be anywhere where
I'm miserable exactly you made a but you
made a choice you're like let it burn so
you UND you at some point understood
like these there's a consequence here
and it's interesting cuz bullies they're
not they they Flex they're not very
powerful you know I had oh gosh we're
like swapping stories here I had one
scenario where I inherit a case you know
every John's gone he went to the
president's detail you are now taking
Jon's case Okay so there were some
things that were incomplete in John's
case with with regard to evidence it was
admin stuff the admin paperwork for
evidence hadn't been filled out yet I
got the case I pushed it to the side I
worked on it I would update it but I
hadn't done the admin thing with it fast
forward I'm leaving cuz I just got
bumped to a different position and so
the new agent that got it I'm like hey
here's the case I said there's one thing
that I didn't get to do it's the admin
thing for the evidence I'm like I can
help you go through it blah blah blah
blah
well uh the group leader I had at the
time which was a
peer in front of the whole group one day
he's like
hey you didn't do this admin you didn't
file the evidence for whatever blah blah
blah blah and he's doing this in front
of everybody you know you need to take
care of that and that's on you and I
don't care that you inherited the case
and blah blah blah blah blah so I'm
watching this happen and I assure you I
all I wanted to do was like reach over
and lunge him by the neck but I didn't I
left I was
pissed I let it ride my anger ride and
later that day I went and I found him
after I calmed down and his name was
Jeff I'm like hey Jeff come here let me
talk to you and I took him into the
stairwell cuz we had these secure
stairwells I said listen earlier on you
brought up this case you're 100% right I
didn't finish the ad paperwork for the
evidence I will take care of it and I
will help the new agent do it I said
however I was like if you ever want to
address me cuz he was very insulting
when he did it he did it in front of the
whole group to flex I said if you ever
want to address me don't ever do it like
that again I go because I'm addressing
you and I'm actually giving you more
respect than you showed me in there
before by pulling you into this
stairwell I said so if you want to
address me feel free to pull me to the
side and speak to me but what you did
out there there's no need we're peers
and that's it you may be the group
leader but there's no need to talk to me
like
that I go have the decency to address me
the way and the with the courtesy that
I'm giving you because I could have
easily tore your head off in there and
he was a peer he was a peer SLG group
leader so we were the same but he
happened to be a group leader okay which
meant he oversaw me I said so next time
there's not going to be a next time it
was immediately I'm sorry you're right
I'm sorry I'm sorry now for that sonar
Mario I wanted to have long-term good
relationships because this person was
was in my
squad and so that's why I handle it like
that never happened again so I guess
like there's different ways to do it
with Jeff I preserved his dignity
because if I would have shot back he
would have shot back at me I would have
shut back at him and there's a point too
where I'm like I'm I don't want to look
like an I don't want to sit and fight
and look
stupid I I want to be in control of like
how I manage an environment and me
yelling back or confronting someone
sometimes may not be it especially if I
think I can't keep myself composed and
in that moment there was no way I was
going to be
composed I think you're right now I
reflect on the incident that I described
to you I don't actually think I was that
composed I didn't shout I was very
articulate looked to them in the eyes
without breaking eye contact but
actually if I was really composed I
would have done what you did which is I
would have said please can I have a
private chat with you and I actually
think it would have been more effective
and would have shown more of my sort of
fortitude to have that conversation
privately the other thing that you said
which I thought was so important in the
context of what we're saying is you do
have to point at a specific incident
because these individuals they are
masters of gaslighting you so if you
don't have specifics that just happened
in that location and it made me feel
like this and you said this if you let
it ride and you come to them with Vibes
they will so easily twist it what are
you talking about I don't know what you
mean no that's not what I meant that's
why you have to come with very specific
stuff but you know even if if you said
you were pissed when you did it if you
were still able to articulate yourself
you were I think it's okay to own it
listen I'm not saying I've always flown
like uh up top like there's times where
I'm like I shouldn't have done that or
said it but I I also run hot and I know
myself and so I have to police myself
and and then there's times like we learn
our lesson it's just I think whatever
you do just own it whether if it was the
wrong thing to do just say I won't do
that next time
but I feel like you were okay you said
something a second ago which about
bullies right and there's this
fascinating thing I've come to learn
about bullies and people that are like
this type of disrespect is they're
actually going in search of the weakest
link and the the incredible thing that
happened in the scenario that I'm
describing is once this individual
realized that I would literally call it
out and I was I was off the table they
never treated me like that again but
they moved on they moved on to someone
else that I work with and that person as
we sit here today is thinking of leaving
that environment because of the same
person who was making the little snide
slight comments about me is now doing it
about
them and I say to this person I say why
don't you just do what I did why she cuz
she saw me confront I say to why don't
you go just do what I did and she just
say I haven't got I I don't I don't want
conflict so what is she doing actually
she's becoming suppressing herself yes
yeah and she's going to leave something
that she loves doing purely she called
me the other day purely because this
person's making her
feel um a certain way I think that
that's a okay too though like she can it
reminds me of that narcotic story it's
like she's just like I just don't want
to be here anymore but at the same time
too if she keeps going when you go small
small small they go higher higher it's
you know speaking of Billy I'm going to
bring it back to Crime when I started
interviewing suspects right you watch TV
shows and in your head think these
Predators right are like these like
really intimidating scary predators and
the way they behave and you think like
I'm going to get these like Savages in
the room nope and you know what's
interesting when you look at the
populations of people being victimize
the most first it's children then it's
women and then it's elderly
why because they're the easiest to
victimize so when you look at Predators
they pick easy prey or what they
perceive as easy prey they don't want
Fair fights I would sit across people in
the room who did like really horrific
crimes against kids and you would look
at them and you're like you I could eat
you for
lunch a lot of times to we build up
people in our heads and we think like
they're these these like high Apex
individuals they're not they pray on
people weaker than themselves and why it
makes them feel stronger and better more
powerful why do you need to do that
because you feel
weak that's why you do that that's why
you bully that's why you push because
because you feel a void and you look to
feel that void by taking from other
people and that's what makes you feel
strong all these Predators I never sat
across from anybody to include
terrorists I never sat across anyone and
I was just like oh this guy's scary
never I'm shocked actually as I say it I
have never to this day sat across
someone where I'm like oof
not once everybody I'd walk in and I'm
like you in my head of course the inside
voice like you did this and so I guess
like bullies like I think sometimes
we unfortunately give them more
weight and
gravitas then they really are weak
weakness all the way through with that
in mind how do I stop myself becoming
prey to a predator you stop acting like
prey so the one thing you're not going
to be is it depends who it is first of
all if it's personal
relationships you have to
set the intention of the relationship
from the beginning how you want it to go
so let's do work work is an easy one I'm
not there to be your friend I can be
friendly but I'm not going to be your
friend I'm not there to be super nice to
you or super sweet or super kind like I
can be warm I can be respectful I can be
compassionate I can be those things but
I got to bring the right version of me
to a work environment cuz then I just
get because then I set the tone of like
well is every my friend or is every my
boss like what am I dealing with here
like always keep that level of
professionalism always and I make I make
a point to do it because then it just
becomes really awkward if if people are
your friends can you balance a
relationship like that you just got to
be really really really really good but
like don't come in and like literally
like make yourself a doormat or like
overextend to the the point because the
more you overextend even a good person
it's going to be like oh that's just how
she is that's how he is they get used to
being like that and people like being
catered to they like feeling like
they're above and so now you create this
role Dynamic of I'm subservient and
you're here so you want to make sure
that no matter how excited you are to
work with someone or be with someone
that you don't create this
disproportionate thing like the Seesaw
you want to keep the Seesaw level it'll
go up and down but but you want to make
sure that you because you will do it
everybody assesses everybody everybody
sizes people up they do it intuitively
people meet you they size you up oh he
seems like this she seems like that she
seems like she's going to be this
way project what you want them to feel
I'm here I'm warm I'm open I'm happy to
be here again thank you for having me um
let's talk but at the same time you can
also think about how you sit how you
carry yourself your voice your tone all
these things play Alone Together I know
people talk about body language it does
play a role and the fact that look
something as simple as when you go to
meetings are you in the meeting and
you're like this you're small maybe you
got your phone out right what am I doing
I'm I'm making myself small my hands
aren't on the table because I don't
think I'm worth putting my hands on the
table right I want to literally make
myself disappear I'm not going to ask
any
questions I'm going going to maybe sit
like this with my thing here right so
this is telling you story about me it is
so it's a really subtle way to be
like why don't I sit with purpose I'm
going to sit like this I'm going to have
my arms out I'm going to have my
shoulders back something as simple as
just my posture means something there's
a study actually done New York City they
put up cameras years ago and they
started recording people walking in New
York City then they took the footage and
they played it to convicted felons in
prison and they said to them who would
you pick as
prey they all picked the same people to
pray on all the same people just by walk
there were three types of walk they
found out one walk was I'm walking I'm
sloppy I'm not paying attention I'm just
like in my own space I have really no
deliberate purpose in the way I'm moving
my body Target easy prey other easy prey
my walk is small I'm more timid I'm kind
of like not comfortable I'm like paying
attention easy prey those two barnon
were picked you know who they didn't
pick the walk wasn't too sloppy big it
wasn't too small it was right in the
middle and it's deliberate I'm in
control of my body I'm looking around
I'm present I own my space that person I
want nothing to do with those group of
people were not picked to be targets so
we exude Vibes energy all that stuff but
even this this tool that we don't pay
attention to our body think about how
you use it to portray yourself when
you're out there am I commanding myself
or am I just not paying attention at all
so even subtle things like that your
voice it's called paral Linguistics and
I wrote about it a lot in becoming
Bulletproof
your your voice do I talk like this hi
Amie so nice to meet you I'm so glad to
be here hi guys love it right what kind
of guess am I going to
be right but when I find my true voice
and I own it I slow down my speech I
bring down my tone and Pitch to my true
voice to at least the most powerful
voice and I'm grounded and I take my
time and I'm also when I speak and I
take my time I'm letting you know I
deserve to be here
what I'm saying deserves to be heard and
I deserve to take time for you to listen
to me as opposed to when I speak really
really fast because hey guys look really
quick I don't want to take up anybody's
time anymore I know you're all busy what
did I just tell everybody don't listen
to me what I'm about to say isn't really
relevant and you're more important and
what I'm about to say really isn't I
just killed it how many times do people
finish meetings like that why are you
saying that you just told them don't
listen to
me these are subtle things that if we
just pay attention to you don't have to
do a lot you don't have to do a lot
there's no magic pill there's no secret
to this other than really own yourself
and think about what am I exuding with
my energy with my body with my voice
even your voice your voice captures like
so many things like your voice it's like
um you have to think of it like over
your your your your time in your life
your voice captures the things you've
been through with you were told to be
quiet be a good girl be a good boy don't
talk loud don't do this don't do that
and you have to think like over time
this voice has become a bit mangled
because other people around you were
telling you how to use it and often
we're actually not using our true voice
it's the voice that we've sort of
somehow manufactured and created based
off of what everybody else told us it
should sound like and so you want to pay
attention to that like how do I sound
and I even noticed when I my husband
pointed this out cuz cuz he's kind of
got the same background he said to me
once he's like you ever noticed that
when you talk to your mom your voice
goes high and I was like it does he's
like yeah it does cuz she's my mom she's
an authority and also she has a higher
voice cuz she talks with a very high
voice and I'm like you're right and so
even with my daughter cuz I have a
little one I try very hard to make sure
that I don't do like the baby babbling
voice and like the high-pitch voice
because I don't want her to grow up
thinking that because she's a girl she
has to talk like this all the time hi
Mom because I want her to have a strong
commanding presence and where she going
to learn that from her mom in fact even
in there are studies done that even in
scenarios where a child maybe favor the
opposite sex
parent they imitate the same seex
parent so my daughter whether she likes
me or not growing up will imitate my
behavior more so because I'm the one
she's learning from and so I have
awareness with that do you think your
life would have gone differently and you
would be sat here now if you spoke
differently in the high pitch fast way
that I wouldn't be doing news who's
going to listen to anything I say hi
everybody Welcome today we had a mass
shooting do I sound like I know what I'm
talking about I don't even if what I'm
saying is correct
correct it's do I believe in the words
that I'm saying do I own the words I'm
saying if I don't believe in them and I
don't sound like I'm know I'm talking
about you won't either in fact when you
watch any any news anchor like you will
hear like they've got a strong anchored
voice because even with breaking you
stuff changes all the time you know I
remember I was covering the recent
shooting in New Orleans it's breaking
news I'm getting information as it's
coming in and I'm I'm doing a breakdown
the best I can with the information
that's coming in so but I still have to
convey it in a way where people can
trust and believe in what I'm saying but
if I don't sound like I believe in what
I'm saying it's not going to land this
the the way you sound has more impact
than the words you actually
say that's a big thing I didn't real I
learned this later on I learned this as
an agent and then even more so when I
began doing TV because there were times
where I'm like man this what I sound
like
I don't know if you've ever had that you
ever maybe when you first started off oh
yeah of course where you play yourself
and you hear yourself and you're just
like oh yeah of course and then you're
like you know I need to fix that I don't
need to sound like that I need to sound
a certain way I'm the host of a podcast
I'm asking these questions I'm sitting
across from these people I need to match
them to some
degree to show that like please listen
to my show I deserve to be here I'm
giving you good information I'm
credible we take our time when it comes
to hiring at flight story because I
fundamentally believe the success of a
business is directly linked to how good
you are at hiring and better hiring
starts with smarter insights LinkedIn
who's a sponsor of this podcast is some
of the strongest hiring data available
to help you identify the best candidates
for your business their platform will
even pair you with those who match what
you're looking for which might lie
outside of the job description and More
in their unique skills and interests
because these days hiring isn't just
about finding the most qualified person
but also finding the one whose
experience abilities and interests align
with your company's Mission and it goes
beyond candidates who are applying for
jobs too in any given week 171 million
members who aren't actively seeking jobs
are open to New Opportunities find your
next great hire on LinkedIn and start
today by posting your job for free just
by visiting linkedin.com
doac your hands you use your hands a lot
as well yes probably because I'm Greek
no but it's it's interesting because
it's part of the delivery when you're
saying something a second ago you were
going and you you were doing slow hand
movements that are almost illustrating
the point you're making and it is
persuasive because it almost is adding
another layer of emphasis to what you're
saying whereas if your hands were just
tucked into the table I actually might
think you're less confident or sure in
what you're saying but because you're
like again it goes to what you saying
you're taking more space up so don't
hide your hands like just for anybody
listening 101 if you're sitting in a
meeting don't do hide your hands don't
sit on them don't hide them just one it
it doesn't look good it doesn't send a
good message it sounds like you're kind
of insecure you don't want to be there
hands out I'm here I'm present and yes
with the these are called illustrators
when you do this with your hands it's
called illustrators now there's a couple
of things with illustrators one it can
make it more interesting to watch
someone speaking when you use an
illustrator it that's more emphasis you
said it it adds another layer aside from
me just sitting still right it engages
people and pulls in the viewer a bit
more it's more engaging that's one the
other thing with illustrators is it can
be a cultural C cultural thing I'm Greek
I'm from New York so I've got massive
problem with these things I actually
work very hard to put them away the
other thing that's actually interesting
which you didn't ask but I will
volunteer this information it's uh
another way I would use to tell if
somebody's being truthful or not again
everybody is different everybody's body
language is different but when you're
speaking to someone and they use
illustrators when they normally
talk typically when we see illustrators
it's truthful right they're telling you
a story yesterday yes you know I went
out with my friends we went and we had
burgers and then afterward we went to
the store so when you see somebody doing
that it is very likely they are reliving
the event and you can see the body
reliving it with him so when you see
that positive sign typically that
they're being truthful now if you're
talking to someone who uses illustrators
and all of a sudden they do this this
they put their hands away during a
certain part of the story so tell me who
you went out and had dinner with
eie oh um you know it was just some
people from the
office in that moment what you're going
to do is say Okay ev's used illustrators
this whole time I shifted the
conversation I asked her something else
not her hands me away why that's it why
that's lie detection 101 now it doesn't
mean I am lying because everybody lies
different everybody's behavior is
different we're not going to put people
in a box cuz that's just dumb however
what you're noticing is a deviation
whenever he tells stories she uses her
hands and then for whatever reason I
asked a question that question prompted
something in eie and eie put her hands
away she did a shift and now you having
caught that you're going to ask me more
questions you're not going to move on to
the next topic you're going to find a
way to say I need to get Evie to talk
more about who she went out with last
night because clearly something just
happened and is that because they're
they're going from their natural state
of flow and whatever to more calculated
and they're think they're like
overthinking part of with lying right if
we're just using lying or if you ask me
something for whatever reason let's say
I don't want to tell you who I had
dinner with last night right when I feel
that I'm overwhelmed I'm in N dating
lying is hard lying is hard you have to
think of what you're saying how am I
going to say it is it going to be
believable I want to move the top topic
on I don't want to get caught cuz who
wants to be a liar although everybody
lies to some degree right so it's
overwhelming it's actually a heavy
cognitive load that's why you have
that's why one of the things like it
doesn't mean it's the only thing but one
of the things we were taught to pay
attention to body language to people um
like if you read them well you'll know
what to look for and look for the
deviations cuz everybody is uniquely
different but you would look at body
language to see what are they doing with
their body
because lying is hard and usually you
want to go still and because you're
putting so much of a cognitive load here
all this stuff goes away so that free
flowing eie telling you the story about
I went out I had dinner I had a burger
it was great goes away the moment you're
like well who'd you go have dinner with
eie and now if in that moment I don't
want to tell you I'm having that oh [__]
factor what am I going to say how am I
going to say it I'm overloaded and so I
stop moving the body does Less in that
moment in this specific
scenario a second ago when you were
talking about the study in New York
where they examined how people walk and
tried to figure out who walks like
prey I was I was wondering as you said
that I was thinking can you fake it
because presumably how we walk is quite
a subconscious thing and it comes from
as you said like the things we've been
through in our life and who we've come
to believe that we are so after I heard
that do I just go out on the street and
start walking with a bit more status and
with my shoulders back or am I still
going to fail at some point yeah this is
I think when I remember when I was
younger and I started learning about
psychology and human behavior and
stuff even though I knew the
information I think there was probably
990 other things that I was getting
wrong that were projecting low value or
come disrespect me or I actually don't
have a high sense of self-esteem that I
couldn't see so if I can control this
one little thing it doesn't necessarily
mean the other 999 things that matter in
nonviable communication are going to be
aligned if I'm not truly believing that
I'm confident and high value in myself
so fake it to your make it or do you
have to do some inner work I don't
believe in fake it to your make it and I
actually don't like that term you know
why there's nothing fake about me or you
I don't need to be a fake version of
myself but what I can be is a more aware
version of myself and something as
simple as just doing one thing see just
that one thing it's like you know what
I'm just not going to make myself small
when I walk I'm going to take up space
that's it that's all I'm going to do I'm
not there to solve like a whole puzzle
about why I am the way I am and why
psychologically I walk this way but I'm
going to do one small thing that's going
to make one small difference and it's
going to lessen slightly whether
somebody decides to pray on me or not
that's it and so you know what happens
habit you're going to break the habit of
walking like this and being invisible to
just creating a very simple habit of I
just walk with my shoulders back now
shoulders back shoulders back when you
go down the street in fact when I
started doing the news and pay attention
to my posture and I would sit and do the
news I'm like shoulders back like in my
head I'm like shoulders back shoulders
back shoulders back because there were
times I watch myself or even during
commercial break my husband would send
me text he's like Jesus Christ he's like
sit up straight you look terrible he's
like no one's going to believe he's like
stop slouching and I'm like oh you're
right it's just what am I projecting so
you are simple things you can do so it's
not one big thing we do over time it's
like and and I follow this too it's like
over life it's like one small thing for
me to change a habit of something that I
do just start small and then conquer
that
thing and then move to the next thing
and then move to the next thing but at
the same time be be kind to yourself
like we can't just beat ourselves up I'm
not this I'm not that I'm not confident
like that narrative just takes you down
down down down down and you can
literally I'm also not telling you to be
like I'm fantastic I'm great I'm this
it's just just be
here just be like somewhere in the
middle you know and it speaking of which
it reminds me of and this is kind of
something a little bit different but we
talked about steadiness earlier like how
do you stay steady and the one thing I
also learned about steadiness and
just kind of finding that space where
you're you're you're in control it's
something called neutrality mindset and
actually the person who brought it more
to my attention you've had her on
Gabriel lion Dr Gabriel lion she's
married to a seal now Gabrielle who's
actually my doctor a Navy SEAL she's
married to Navy SEAL Dr
lion when uh her book was coming out she
was asking me all these questions she's
like you know my book's coming out you
know she was ask me questions smart
woman because I had a book come out so
she's like let me ask Evie who's had a
book come out her opinion on a couple of
things and at one point she said to me
you know were you nervous about whether
it would perform well or not or how it
would do and I said no and she's like no
she's like you weren't worried it
wouldn't make this list or that list I
was like no I didn't think about it and
she laughed said why are you laughing
she's like cuz you're all the same you
my husband all these Navy Seals she's
like you're all in the
middle and what she was talking about is
we have a neutrality mindset which means
we don't celebrate High Highs but we
also don't fall down on low lows we're
always in the middle so going back to my
book if my book did well it would do
well because it was a good book and
people liked it that was it and if it
didn't do well it didn't resonate I was
in tied to the fact that oh my God it's
doing great it's selling I didn't
celebrate that now you would look at
like why wouldn't you celebrate a high I
can but what I start to do is I
cultivate a habit where I'm tied to the
external world and when the external
world is giving me this this this thing
that I want I'm
happy but the flip side is that when the
external world is going to give me
things I don't want I'm also going to be
Tethered to that and I'm going to sink
down but if I'm in the middle I don't
have high highs I don't have low lows
I'm always somewhere here neutrality
mindset which means emotionally I'm
always
stable more than likely 99 or 90% of the
time whatever that's neutrality mindset
I don't have high highs I don't have low
lows nothing destabilizes me to that
point how do we get there how did you
get there it's just it's well you don't
get it sounds terrible but one you don't
get overly excited when something
happens outside I'm not saying not to
celebrate but I'm also not going to be
tethered like I can only be happy now
cuz this thing outside of me happened
because now I'm training myself and my
mind to be when external things happen
then I can be truly truly happy or when
external things happen I'm going to be
truly truly sad but if when these
external things happen they don't pull
me all the way up and they don't pull me
all the way down I won't have those
highs and lows that other people will
have I can stay here so I make sure that
when something great is
happening very small example I won't go
out and tell everybody I allow it to
happen right and then people if people
congratulate me or give me good news I
say thank you you know but I don't like
that to be the source of my happiness CU
it comes from here because let's say I
did my book and it bombed so what so now
according to that theory I should what I
should plummet and be like oh my God I'm
a failure I wrote a book it was the only
chance I had it tanked it who am I I'm
this so now my value is tied to what my
emotional state is tied to what how well
or not well my book did that's the
problem so the more stressful situations
you can put in the more places of
uncertainty the more you can manage
these highs and lows the more you're
going to live here and you know what
else going back to who is in your inner
circle I don't like to be around people
who lose their [__] when things break
bad I don't as steady as I am they will
destabilize me they just will
so I do my very best to try to keep a
circle of people around me as much as
possible of people that I know are
steady so going back to Partners I
happen to have a partner a husband who's
like that something can blow up and he'd
be like all right let's
go he's not going to destabilize so that
is infectious on me now can we have
people around us that are um severely
impacted my Mom love you Mom sorry but
my mom who's like very at times can be
emotionally impacted by the outside
world yes so I have to work very hard to
compensate for that to not let that
impact me where I go high high and low
lows it's just awareness but it's just
it's the external world the external
environment cannot be the thing that
either brings you up or brings you down
I completely agree I mean like obviously
running businesses and stuff is prime
example where you're just getting
[__] great news or bad news all the
time and to even try and move
emotionally with whatever the news is
today in your inbox would just be I'd be
like killed over on the floor
dead
however there's so many people that
listening that would say eie I
agree but my nervous system just seems
to run the shop like I just seem to just
get dragged around by good things and
bad things and I catastrophize when
something bad goes wrong and I just I
know what you're saying is true eie but
like how do I get there what's like
what's step one in becoming that person
that isn't swung up and down on the
roller coaster of life do you know like
I wish people gave themselves more
credit like they they think sometimes
people like I'm not it's like you are
like you have so much more Authority and
regulation over yourself and you realize
and I I think sometimes to the narrative
out there is like oh this happened to
you it's not your fault or that happened
to you it's not your fault or this
person did this to you it's not your
fault and so what happens is the
narrative that we hear right now is this
exter internal world is fluctuating you
it's not your fault and so if it's not
my fault how can I stabilize it so
that's one thing so I'm not saying it's
your fault but I'm saying you have the
ability to self-regulate please stop
listening to everybody else that's
telling you it's not your fault it's out
of your hands it's this it's that no
everything always starts and ends with
you if you can just keep that I it start
and ends with me one you're right there
two in those moments when you start to
catastrophize or you start to feel
yourself go that where stop literally
just say out loud to yourself stop it
stop it talk to yourself like interrupt
that thought just interrupt it don't let
it finish even if you're having a high
high with something great happening I'm
not telling you not to be happy but also
don't over sent sensationalize it don't
go tell everybody because then you're
pulling yourself up you're being
tethered by that right I'm trying to
what I'm saying is don't be this up down
yo-yo cut it just be like oh no like
literally just just tell yourself
there's moments where I like I talk to
myself all the time I like I'm I'm my
voice and so if there's moments where I
think my voice is drawning out I will
say hey no this is what we're going to
do now talk yourself through it it's
such a powerful thing to really just
stop the thoughts just stop them and
take ownership and say stop thinking
that no there's this uh person who used
to tell me that one of the things that
she used to say to herself was cancel
cancel and it was a negative thought or
something bad she would say to yourself
cancel cancel I'm canceling that thought
out loud so find
something that interrupts it that's
where you just start like we're not
trying to do the whole feat we're just
trying to to break these habitual
patterns and also sometimes I quite
honestly this nonsense stuff that we're
fed that really keeps us like just it
just keeps us from being able to take
ownership over ourselves I think what's
really interesting as well in that
cancel cancel example is you're almost
talking to someone and that person is
yourself and as you were saying that I
was thinking yeah I think the like the
fundamental underlying belief that you
demonstrate and that that person's
demonstrating is that they are not their
thoughts it's like they're talking to
someone else whereas most of us go
through our life thinking that our
thoughts are us so if my brain starts
going oh my God this is going to go so
badly and then it's going to happen like
this and then I'm going to lose my job
and you think that's yourself and you
don't think you could have a
conversation with that voice you know
what I'm saying but you can interrupt
that voice like you have the ability to
say stop I remember speaking to Mo Gord
on the podcast and he says that he's
named his brain Becky so that he can do
that so that he can kind of detach from
the thoughts and so he'll say Becky
he'll have a conversation with Becky
which I think is kind of smart now I
think about it it's not a bad bad way of
detaching from your toxic thoughts
talking yourself through things is
actually good even in you know going
back even in training when we be put in
scenarios like they they would they
would simplify things like in some
scenarios like hey step one this step
two this step three this or they would
create acronyms like you know I'm going
to make one up because I can't think of
one like stop Target move
shift and they would teach you just say
that to yourself as you're as you're in
this stressful situation like if they
created like they would create scenarios
where there would be explosions attacks
all right talk yourself and like
literally when you we would do let's say
a scenario in Beltsville and we do an
ambush on they create a a system where
we they do ambushes on us all right
fight yourself out of it they're to
because you're so
overloaded with the stress of what's
Happening um and even though you know
it's training you don't want to look
like you don't want to look bad in front
of your peers you don't want to look
like you don't know what you're doing
you want to do a good job and sometimes
even though it's training the body
doesn't know it's training and thinks
it's real life there's moments and
literally like you'd be in these
tactical scenarios and you would talk to
yourself in your head and sometimes you
could do it even out loud stop shift
move Target move Target take you know so
I'm giving like a hypothetical example
but this ability to talk yourself
through movements is also a very
powerful thing it can it can
stop like this this this mass amount of
like the muck in your head and kind of
clear it out so I I actually learned
that in training and they taught us like
just tactical uh words sentences things
to say to ourselves that would just help
H us habitually move through problems
Kinesis just keep just keep moving keep
moving through the problem there's an
element of what you just said there
though that raises another question
which is there's a reason why they were
doing explosions in training because
they are trying to fully simulate and
put you through the real world examples
that you're going to go through so that
you develop some resilience and I was
thinking then you know we can talk about
tactics and tricks and tips to do this
all we like but you've literally had to
go through it in order to be able to
deal with it that's like the essence of
the training you described so is there
not an element of this everything we're
saying here where unfortunately you're
just going to have to go through some
[__] in life to develop the thick
skin because even when I think about my
career in business I think if I had
heard on a podcast someone telling me H
when bad [__] happens just [__] you
know like stay in the
middle I don't think it would have been
enough to prepare me for the reality of
the situation when you've got say 500
employees and you got to pay them all
tomorrow and you look at the bank and it
says zero and you've got clients
emailing you giving you [__] for this or
this whatever how you how you all when
our company got hacked in the early days
and all of my clients my biggest clients
in the world biggest brands in the world
all got personalized abusive emails
about their appearance at 3:00 a.m. in
the morning that was apparently from my
business partner's email it was cently
meant to go to my PE but accidentally
got said to them and waking up on that
morning as a 23 24 yearold there's
really no words that can prepare me for
that but because I've been through it I
could go through it again and I wonder
how much of this is actually in life
you're just going to have to go through
some difficult [__] because you've been
through difficult [__] but you have to
go through it there there's there's no
exception the harder you work you you're
going to work so hard to avoid it which
actually just makes you more afraid and
weaker words it's like it's just going
to happen and being okay we mitigate as
much as we can through the circle of
people what we choose to do what we
choose to surround ourselves with we
understand that right the vest the
bulletproof vest can only cover so much
of our body and then we understand that
we are vulnerable in other areas and
you're going to have to go through it
even as a mom like one of the things is
I want to give my daughter the best
tools so that she can problem solve and
it's not just being able to feel the
stress it's being able to when you're
dealing with a scenario like that you
can't just sit and be paralyzed by it
you're like I have to respond to this
and you learn to cope you learn coping
skills and strategies you're learning to
problem solve the only way you learn to
problem solve is when you're dealing
with a problem if everything's Problem
free you don't know how to problem solve
so one of the things I make sure with my
daughter not even though she's still
very young is I will look at moments
where she's frustrated let's say she's
trying to climb onto the bed I will let
her as long as it's safe I will let her
be frustrated and cry and scream till
she gets up on the bed I've seen her do
it I know she can do it so I will tell
her like I will say work out the problem
there there's incremental things we can
do in our
lives to allow ourselves to learn how to
problem solve there's no escaping
problems for anyone there's no escaping
hardship for anybody there's no escaping
trauma or tragedy for anybody there just
isn't when you I think when you come to
terms with that like you're okay but
it's when you can't come to terms with
it and you think like life's just bad
for me life's picking on me my life is
hard my life is this my life is that you
know you're not that special I just did
my second Ted Talk and I talked about
the six Inhibitors that hold us back
hold people back and it was based off of
all the mentors I did like hundreds like
which happened after I wrote my book
when people writing in and one of the
biggest things that holds people back is
the idea that I'm
special I'm special in that my problems
are special my pain is special I'm so
unique nobody knows what I'm going
through so when everything around me if
I'm that special why I can't figure my
stuff out because I'm I'm not like
everybody else and when you do that when
you have that narrative like that you
think of yourself in that way you are
telling yourself I'm alone in the
world CU I'm special nobody can know
what I'm going through or struggling
with or dealing
with and and it's actually kind
of when I would talk with people and
like you'd give them Solutions and
they're like no no no but that that
won't work for me because of this or
this and that it was always like and I
would tell them I'm like I say this with
all the love of my heart you're not that
special if you if you recognize that
then you're going to realize that you're
not alone in this world going through
all this stuff this stuff isn't just
happening to you and there's Solace you
know after 911 you know I survived 911 I
was one of the First Responders there I
don't even like to use the word survive
I was there I live through it people ask
me you know how did you deal with the
aftermath because you know you're
watching thousands of people die you
almost die yourself s just to pause
there because that was an important
point for me why don't you like to use
the word
survive I like live through
why survive to me has a negative
connotation it's not as powerful I don't
like
it to me like I I live through survive
is this thing happened and I this is how
it feels because I I I don't I'm trying
to articulate it feels like I I survive
through it it's like no I I thrive
through
that I live through that I thrive
through it survive makes me think I
barely made it which technically I kind
of did but I don't care but one of the
things that helped me get through it
when people like you know there trauma
like you're watching truly you're
watching I watch thousand like thousands
of people die people jumping
and like you can't do anything like you
tried we try I tried so and then after
that we had search clean up and rescue
efforts and I will tell you one of the
things that got me through it to the
point where I barely dealt with any type
of
real aftermath like PT or anything like
that I'm not saying I didn't get
anything but what helped me through is I
wasn't that special I wasn't alone in
it when you know you're not alone in the
world like you can get through anything
but when you tell yourself that you are
that unique and that what is happening
to you is just happening to you then all
your pain is special all your problems
are special your trauma is
special and then nobody can help you cuz
it's just you going through it how alone
is that and it's that mental
shift of when you can hear other
people's stories or see what other
people are going through and then you
that helps pull you through your stuff I
will tell you that I'm not that special
has got me through so much I can see it
in your face as you
talk and it's making me curious as to
why this is
so
personal cuz I'm not special and I think
I don't know I think it's a detriment
when people think that they're that
special I think it takes you down
there's a story here you're not telling
me I feel like I don't think it's a
story we all think we're the sun right
and everything moves around us and when
you are on that space when you think
you're that special you
self-analyze you self you go in a lot
more and you would probably say well
that's good eie is it is it really that
good for me to sit and analyze
everything going on in my life or when I
over analyze I over assess I'm overly
critiquing I'm so focused on myself do
you know what that actually does it
actually you have higher rates and
anxiety and higher rates of
depression because I am so self-focused
now I'm not saying when I say you're not
that special I don't mean that you're
arrogant or narcissistic or
self-absorbed I mean that you are so
self-focused that the outside world
Fades and it's just you and whatever it
is you're dealing with how can you get
out of that that's a very hard head
space to get out of why do they stay in
that space in your opinion I don't think
that they realize that they're in that
space I they're not listening like
sometimes you can even talk to people
they're not listening to you why don't
they want to listen like why aren't they
listening I I because they don't think
anything's wrong or sometimes they'll
look to you and be like oh you're you're
you like you don't know what I'm going
through or you don't realize here's the
thing you and I talking about stuff from
an from a place where we're trying to
understand it objectively we're looking
to not live that way where we're looking
to understand it and so we can share it
with others but the only people that are
going to receive it are the people that
watch this podcast and want
to and even then when they watch this
they're going to pick and choose the
parts that work for them or the parts of
this podcast that fit the narrative that
they tell
themselves yes and I was reading
something over Christmas which is really
friend of mine and I think it's part of
why I'm so interested in this subject it
was called the courage to be disliked
and in the opening chapter of the book
it confronts this it's this kid
basically arguing with this philosopher
and the kid is saying to the philosopher
kind of exactly what we've said no I'm a
victim of my life the things that
happened to me my trauma this is the way
that I am and I don't believe I can
change and the philosopher is making the
case to the kid that you can in fact
change and really the like Insight the
thing the philosopher ends up saying to
this kid which spun my brain for a while
and it's spinning my brain a little bit
is this idea that what happened to us
doesn't determine our lives but we use
what happened to
us to achieve a goal that we have
today now to put this into like a
practical real
example if I am a kid that is 27 years
old and I'm still in my mom's basement
and I'm not going out there and getting
a job I might say yeah I want a job but
actually big being in my mom's basement
is actually serving me in some way and
it might seem to be self-destructive to
someone looking in but my mom's bringing
me my food they finally show me
attention if I change I lose the
sympathy if I change I lose the
attention and actually this attention
has gotten a little bit addictive this
sympathy this place of victimhood has
gotten a little bit addictive to me in a
way that I don't even know in a way
that's actually self-destructive in the
near term
and the long term but at some
subconscious level I'm actually like
addicted to my pain and suffering and
it's funny because when I was so I read
the book and then I started writing
because I like to read things then try
and write them into my own like language
and I started thinking about someone in
my own life and uh it's just I finally
figured out this individual in my life
that's been in my life for a long time
who when you look at the actions you go
they're ruining their own life but when
you dig deeper into their identity being
a heroic victim is everything to them
and actually if I this person walked
into this room now and introduced
themselves it would take 60 seconds for
them to get to a story of how they've
been hard done by and how they've
overcome it but this means that help aid
good decisions have had to always be
secondary to protecting this narrative
that they're a victim and actually sorry
to going a bit of a rent here at one
point they were a victim at one point
objectively they went through some
really horrific horrible
things but the Predator's gone now so
now they're looking for a predator and
it's ruined their entire life it's
ruined their home their family their
finan financials because even when good
things come come by good people come by
they find a way to make this person a
predator and they find a way to make
them the heroic victim and so it really
shifted my brain about like even my own
trauma and the narratives and this hero
story I tell about myself I'm like maybe
I'm using what happened to me to serve a
a goal I have today of projecting to the
world that I am filling the Gap whatever
gives me validation and you know
reinforcement from people so anyway you
know it reminds me a little bit of
um histrionic disorder or um where you
pretend you're
sick it's like one of the disorders you
pretend either you're sick or your child
is
sick um because when you do that you get
a lot of attention and so if I'm a
victim of something or I'm going through
something are you okay are you all right
do you need something and it does
cultivate this attention whereas every
if everything's okay that all goes away
and so I I think all of it it's people I
think it's so many different things
people get comfortable they don't want
to get out of it they don't think
anything is wrong it serves them
nothing's wrong with my life who are you
to tell me it's like all these different
layers and and when it's people close to
us it's hard and I just have surrendered
that two things who am I to tell
somebody else how to live so if they
think that that's the way they life
needs to be I do have a little bit I'm
not that special so who am I to tell you
that you should live this way there's a
little bit of or a lot of rather let
people live how they want to live it
reminds me of what you were saying
earlier about identity and I was
thinking of something I read recently
that said swads to the effective people
would go to Great Lengths to destroy
things including themselves before they
dare edit their own identity there's a
real element of Truth in that you're
talking about identity and instrumental
mindsets and I wonder if there's a real
risk to developing an identity because
you've got an identity Now secret
service agent
NYPD strong woman doesn't take [__] says
it how it is
well you know so in the context of
identity the identity mindset if we go
back it's it's that I'm special mindset
I'm in an emotional state I'm special
that's like identity mindset that's how
you know when you're talking to someone
if they're instrumental or identity if
they're instrumental they're task
oriented they're moving they're trying
to solve problems if they identity
they're stuck they're emotional I can't
believe this I can't believe this
happening to me so with that when you
can figure out what mind mindset
somebody is in then you can talk to them
but you talk to them in the mindset that
they're in if somebody is instrumental
I'm going to know this is a person
that's just like tell me what to do just
get to the point I just wanted this this
and this and this there's no feelings
there's no stuff involved there's no
emotions somebody's
identity right they are it's about them
it's how it's affecting them typically
again when we're very
self-focused uh higher depression higher
anxiety because over analyzing things
we're in an emotional state so when
someone's there it's good for you to
know because you know in that moment
they're not listening to what I'm saying
they are stuck in their space now if I'm
looking to progress the conversation
let's say they work for me I'm going to
sit and listen to them let them offload
to a point to get them where I need them
to be or to get them to get to um this
instruction this instrumental space like
an agency like the US Secret Service it
was very instrumental nobody wants to
hear you complaining get it done fix
this do this because they didn't really
have the luxury of being like that cuz
if you are like that people die it's
just like you got to you got to move on
but if your identity and where it's like
you're really wanting other people to
understand you I'm not saying that we
don't visit identity Land once in a
while but you it's not a great place to
live either because you're so
self-focused that you can't function
it's it's me me me me me but if you can
Master this which you can easily do when
you talk to people you'll know that
person's instrumental they just need X Y
and Z that person's identity your friend
is
Identity the thing with them is their
identity almost all the time yeah that's
when it becomes a
problem and I've got
great empathy and sympathy because
defense can become someone's personality
especially if at a younger age that
defense was their survival do you know
what's interesting um and the Harvard
Business Review did a a study on this
they wrote about this do you know that
the more you go
through the less empathy you have so you
would think let's say you've been
through your hardships you would think
that because you've been through that
stuff you would have more empathy but as
you rise through the ranks you actually
have less empathy because you've been
through it you've overcome it and you
kind of look at people like can you
please get it together so yes and if you
think about it it makes sense because
it's like get through this you I've
gotten through this whereas if you're
dealing with someone who hasn't gone
through it or is in the
lower uh ranks at work uh they've got
more empathy cuz also think of it too as
you're going up in business you're
dealing with so so many more people you
don't have the cognitive space or load
to deal with everybody's stuff so
sometimes when people come to me my boss
my boss and my my response is do you
know how much your boss is probably
juggling it's not that they're a jerk
they're instrumental they're just trying
to get stuff done and you being where
you are kind of lower in the hierarchy
you're not dealing with as much trying
to juggle as much and so you're looking
for more empathy you have more space
more time this person's up here they're
trying to keep that ship from sinking so
that's where a lot of people sometimes
get lost with their supervisors so it's
interesting too because you know I even
noticed that for myself I try to have
empathy but there's moments where you're
like man I'm you know it it can be you
want to control it on the inside but be
like there's times where you're like can
we please just get it together like it's
it's not that big of a deal I've
invested more than a million pounds into
this company Perfect Ted and there also
a sponsor of this podcast I switched
over to using matcher as my dominant
energy source and that's where perfect
head comes in they have the matcha
powders they have the matcher drinks
they have the pods and all of this keeps
me focused throughout a very very long
recording day no matter what's going on
and their team is obsessed with quality
which is why they Source their
ceremonial grade matcha from Japan so
when people say to me that they don't
like the taste of matcha I'm guessing
that they haven't tried perfect headed
unlike lowquality matcha that has a
bitter grassy taste perfect headed is
smooth and naturally sweet and without
knowing it you're probably a perfect
head customer already if you're getting
your match at places like blank Street
or Joe in the juice but now you can make
it yourself at home so give it a try and
we'll see if you still don't like matcha
so here's what I'm going to do I'm going
to give you 40% off our matcher if you
try it today head to perfect ted.com and
use code
st40 or if you're in a supermarket you
can get it at tesos or Holland and
Barett or in the Netherlands at Albert
Hine and those of you in the US you can
get it on Amazon
quick one I want to talk about something
we all need to take seriously which is
cyber security whether you're a
first-time founder facing your very
first audit or a seasoned professional
who's been through it all staying
compliant is getting more critical than
ever and more complicated I have to say
and that is where vant comes in who is a
sponsor of this podcast vant takes the
pain out of security compliance
automating the tedious but essential
process of proving your business is
secure across over 35 Frameworks like
sock 2 ISO
271 centralize your workflows answer
security questions up to five times
faster and protect your business without
losing focus on growth and this is
really a critical part of this a new IDC
white paper found that companies using
vter save over
$535,000 a year and it pays for itself
in just three months for a limited time
my community gets $1,000 off vter at
v.com that's
van.com for $1,000
off on our previous conversation funnily
enough the most replayed moment in the
conversation was where you talk about
the dangers of victimhood stop really
yes yeah the most replayed moment wow I
was quite surprised I think people don't
I I think most people don't want to be
there anymore you know because it's not
working out for them it's not that's why
I think most people most people they're
trying really hard most people who will
watch this podcast or or watch things
similar to this they're really trying
hard and they're trying to to do better
I do believe that and I think that's why
a moment like that because they're like
I don't want to be here anymore just
help me get get the [__] out you know I
respect that because they're trying like
they're trying really hard as opposed to
somebody who's just like I'm checked out
that really speaks to people just saying
like I know this isn't working this
isn't where want to live this isn't
where I want to be and it it it's it's
not getting me ahead in life you know I
always again I live by this Credence if
if I go tomorrow am I okay to go and if
it always set things right for me if
you've lived in a way where you're like
I've done or tried to do these things
then you've lived a full
life but being a victim prevents you
from being from living a full life if
everyone is hurting you if everyone's
out to get you if everyone's doing
something to you if everybody is sliding
you if if this person and that person
how are you living a full life if you're
fighting everybody or pissed off at
everybody because they disrespected you
they're not giving you what you need
they didn't validate this validate that
how will you ever get anything done how
will you ever be
instrumental it doesn't mean you need to
be a CEO or a secret service agent
doesn't mean you need to be anything
like that it whatever your journey is
like how will you ever achieve that if
you're so easily distracted by all this
nonsense who says you have to have
respect by everybody it's nice I I
welcome it but I'm not always going to
get respect I can sit and check every
single box off I'll be respectful to you
I'll be kind to you I'll hand my things
in our time I'll show up on time I'll do
all these things check all those boxes
there are still no guarantees you'll
give it to me I know I was a former cop
former agent I didn't always get
it I was like I hope I get it but I
don't need it but we tell people you
need this who says
who who says I need I need everybody's
respect who and who am I to demand it
who says I need everybody to like me I
don't want people to dislike me I'm not
going to do things to make people
dislike me but I'm also like I can't
navigate my ship like that and then at
the same time if you stop and think
about it when people like oh get
everyone to like you be charismatic
pause who are you making that about you
you don't really care about the other
person it's me I want you to like me I
want you to think I'm charismatic comes
back to me me me me me me how about
there's a little less me and more of how
can I be of service to this person how
can I help this person how can I be more
generous generous to others how can I
give more instead of take so that I can
feel fulfilled it's all about me and my
fulfillment my
identity where am I going me me me I
think we need a little less of that and
how about us us us how about how can I
help help other people how can I be of
service how can I be genuine and that
rig this whole thing give me tips so
everybody likes me give me tips so I'm
the smartest person in the the room if
I'm the smartest person in the room
Stephen I'm I'm in trouble I want to be
the biggest dummy like because I'm not
learning anything from other people and
who might have think I'm this why why
would you want that you know I you see
this marketing stuff come up and we feed
people garbage and then we wonder why
everybody's confused why everybody has a
void because telling them you need more
you need more you are
enough you are steady you are good stop
listening to all
that be a genuine human being try to do
the right thing by people be careful CU
not everyone's out to do the best thing
for you cuz people in pursuit of their
own self-interest they will screw you
over and that's okay just don't be
shocked when it happens it happens but
move through
steady and focus on being of service to
others everything like bring it back and
it's like stop thinking about you I
promise you you will have a better life
it'll be calmer it'll be quiet you'll be
less depressed less anxious less just
because it's not all
you you're in it with everybody
else there's something really
interesting I mean there's so many
interesting things you said there I mean
the two kind of highlight points for me
were this idea
of play the long game of just trying to
serve other people and you'll achieve
your objectives versus trying to do the
shortterm game of maybe being nicey and
caring too much about how you appear
which might help you maybe in the moment
but it's almost a form of long-term
sabotage and I guess this brings me to
the question which is
like should we try and make people like
us
no because it's
fake cuz it's
manipulation that's why I'm who am I
doing it for if I'm trying to get you to
like me is that who you want or do you
want the person who's going to come on
this podcast and just have a genuine
conversation and do her best to give you
some valuable information to help people
who do you want you want me to be like I
hope Stephen likes me I hope he thinks
I'm smart I hope Stephen thinks I'm a
good guest I hope Stephen invites me
back is that what you want and who did I
just make all that about do I give a
[__] about you and your podcast no
clearly I just care about
Evie that's the problem because I'm
manipulating you to fulfill myself
that's where it goes wrong if somebody
likes you it'll be genuine we don't
manufacture it it's
disingenuous people feel
it I'm trying to be charming and Charis
charismatic first of all major red flag
for narcissistic personality disorder
number one really sure A lot of them are
in fact when you see that always ask
yourself why is what is motivating this
person I always think like what is
motivating this person so if as I I sit
across from you what's motivating you is
you want to do a good podcast you have
millions of people who listen you want
to give them good content period the end
you you seem to be a big fan of being
authentic right as a person I just want
to be a genuine and I don't want to be a
[__] artist nobody wants to be
bullshitted I've experienced it nobody
likes it
and it's not being authentic it's just
being
genuine because also like you can't just
walk into a room I'm like I'm going to
be me and whoever likes it likes it like
good luck with that right you want to
adapt to the environment and to people
you're with and what mindset that they
have and talking to them in a way that
they understand not you so adap that's a
bit more adaptability and and connecting
with people even when I talk to
businesses a lot of times one of the big
things is and they're learning this a
lot of businesses are moving away from
being transactional
making the sale and just trying to get
these short-term goals and what they're
shifting toward which is smart is
long-term relationships with people
because if you have a long-term
relationship with a client and they
genuinely like you not because you charm
them or you trick
them but because they genuinely like you
they're genuinely going to want to stay
with you and they're not going to want
to leave and go do business somewhere
else that's why being genuine works and
you can be genuine and disagree with
someone
too that holds better people people Vibe
other people quite a
bit and they feel it and if they feel
your nonsense and they feel like you're
tricking them or you know using tactics
even when I sometimes I give Keynotes
and and I'll tell them I'm like I'm not
here to give you tips tricks or
techniques I'm not here for that I was
like can I ask you a question do you
like when people use techniques on
you no do you like it when people use
tricks on you no so why would you do
that and why would you think that's
going to take you
places it'll take you somewhere short
term long term people going to drop
you I was um watching your BBC Maestro
recording which by the way is fantastic
and I highly recommend anybody who
hasn't seen it to go and check it out um
it's basically like a it takes
everything you're saying it kind of
turns it into a bit of a Course and
there was a line you said in it which I
thought was quite interesting which is I
wish you as much rejection as possible
because that will increase yourself
confidence you also saying that in the
BBC Myer piece that confidence is the
number one thing you get asked
about I wish you as much rejection as
possible that kind of goes back to what
we were saying earlier about how like
going through difficult [__] is um the
best way to build a thicker skin but who
on Earth want to go through
rejection who who on Earth what kind of
psychopath is going to self- elect to go
through
rejection person who wants to build
their
resilience because when you deal with it
so the BBC mro course is the art of
influence how to influence others so
going back
to the ethos of that course
was and I and I say it at the beginning
I'm not here to give you tips tricks or
techniques because that's not going to
influence people we're not trying to
trick people or manipulate people to get
things out of them because that's not
going to help anybody in the long term
it won't help you in the long term
influence is having the ability to have
people to want to be around us to have
people to want to work with us to have
people who to want to talk to us that's
what influence is genuine influence and
like how we push that out there also in
in the class where I talk about
rejection because we split it up into
certain part parts and one of the parts
was your ability to understand yourself
kind of like you can't influence other
people if you don't understand yourself
and so part of that is how resilient are
you how steady are you and you don't
build those things unless you deal with
rejection unless you deal with people
pushing back maybe be a psychopath and
embrace the things that everybody else
is too terrified to embrace everyone's
so scared of being rejected so why don't
you be the Deviant don't be like
everybody else and be like I'm ready for
it I'm good with it because the more you
deal with it the better you are at
dealing with it and you're going to get
it anyway on that point of better
understanding yourself the the other
thing I found was this thing you talk
about which is the animal will which is
a framework that helps people understand
themselves by finding out what their
communication style is I'll put this
animal wheel on the screen for people
that are watching on video but for
people that can't see cuz they're
listening sptify apple or somewhere else
what can you explain to me what this
animal wheel is so that was created by
researchers Dr Lawrence and Emily
Allison they're actually in the UK and
they created a way to break Behavior
down behavior of people they actually
watch thousands of hours of interview
tapes law enforcement intelligence and
they were coding people's behavior so
basically they were like what behavior
is this person so there's two important
things one is we don't label people we
lab label Behavior you label Behavior
because people change people are fluid
for the most part people are fluid so I
need to look at who do I have across
from me in this moment so how they
identified behavior of people they G
they gave them four animal
archetypes lion Monkey Mouse T-Rex lion
is someone who's in charge setting the
agenda I'm in control that's lion when
you have your meetings with your team
and you're the one talking and your team
sitting listening you're Ling in that
moment he's in charge setting the agenda
Mouse is a person who
is patient looking to learn they're
trying to get information they're eager
they're humble seeking
guidance it can be the people on your
team who are sitting quietly because
they're trying to learn probably in some
sense right now you and I switch back
and forth from lion and then our viewers
they're all Mouse they're all here
humble seeking guidance what can I learn
that's that's that but it's fluid now a
person who is monkey monkey is an animal
where you're social you're warm you're
talking to people Hi how are you good
how are you that's what that is right
and then they're probably going to be
that back to you right Bad Monkey which
you probably you probably get a lot is
hey Steve I got a great idea can I just
share it with you hey let me just put
you something real quick uh that's
pleading that's desperate like that's
really wanting something now the other
animal is T-Rex T-Rex which is something
I tend to lean a little bit more towards
which I work very hard not to be but
that's a person who um is direct Frank
and forthright it's also a person who's
like sounds just like the animal you're
more ready to fight like something
happens and you're like let's go um
there's a good version of that there's a
bad version of that all of these have a
good and bad version but that's T-Rex
the key to people is not for you to
dominate the key to people is for you to
identify the person in front of you in
that moment and then adapt to that
behavior so if I've got for example if
you're a lion and I'm trying to be liing
we're both competing nothing's going to
happen like you're going to be talking
and I'm going to be trying to talk over
you it doesn't work but if I see okay
right now Steph's liing he's the one
talking he's guiding the conversation
he's doing this meeting I'm going to go
Mouse I'm going to be humble seeking
guidance yes Stephen I'm listening I
want to learn so the wheel actually
helps you identify who you have in front
and then where do you go based on what
you have in front now if I'm dealing
with someone who's monkey I go to this
event you're going to this event people
are talking to you when you have monkey
you also display monkey which is warm
social respectful however you want to be
aware of like when people are the bad
version of that which is they're trying
to sell you something they want
something from from you you maintain
that warm social respectful but you
realize I've got Bad Monkey in front of
me I need to keep distance and and T-Rex
is if I've got someone who's T-Rex uh it
just means being direct Frank and forth
right but it also teaches you how to
deal with another T-Rex that story you
told me earlier that guy that you
checked that you had checked he was
being T-Rex he was attacking you behind
your back he's still attacking you cuz
you can attack somebody not to their
face but behind their back you gossip
you slander you hurt their reputation
that's T-Rex that's bad T-Rex by the way
so you had bad T-Rex and then you came
in I don't think you were bad T-Rex you
came in as good T-Rex but you were Frank
forthright and direct you said hey I
heard about that stuff you just said
outside to this person if you have
something to say please say it to me you
actually good T-Rex you address them and
what happens is when you have
T-Rex you have to be T-Rex too you just
can't be bad T-Rex where you're
patronizing sarcastic and insulting
people but you come in and you be direct
Frank and forthright and you address the
person it's okay to address people it's
okay not to let stuff slide so long as
you are regulating your behavior but the
way you do this is these animals help
you realize who do I have in front of me
it also helps you realize who am I more
I know when I see this I'm T-Rex hands
down I have to work on it but some
people when we talked about people who
are very subservient or weak or
dismissive or avoidant for them their
Mouse bad Mouse and when you realize
like I go Mouse a lot then that tells
you you know what I need to be a little
bit more line in my life so on this
wheel the reason why it's a wheel is
because the behavior that I'm getting is
on the outside and the response that I
should give them is the thing on the
inside is that is that right there's
four animals each animal has a good
version and a bad version good version
lion is I'm in charge I'm setting the
agenda I'm a boss who's really just
trying to guide and Lead his team okay
bad version of lion which is outside
that Outer Perimeter okay dogmatic
demanding rigid this is the way I want
it this is the way it's going to be done
because I want it like this so how do I
know using this wheel which response I
should give so you're telling me that on
the outside of the wheel is the bad
version of that animal and on the inside
of the wheel is the good version of that
animal how do I find which response to
give based on the behavior so first you
always want to stay in the goodwi you
always want to stay as a good animal
like you don't want people to pull you
out and that's where it talks about
self-regulation cuz it's very easy for
people to pull you into their bad wheel
their bad animal okay and so that's one
one so you always want to stay in that
center part okay so if I've got it works
two ways if I've got lineing in front of
me I have to be Mouse because the
conversation W work we flip so if I've
got line in front of me you're you're
you're you're you're setting the agenda
you're controlling the conversation I
have to allow it to happen to you here's
why if I try to talk or cut you off
you're not listening in fact it's going
to piss you off even more in fact there
was a a big um Beverage Company I won't
say which a coffee company very
well-known one that came to me and said
we have a problem with clients they come
in we give them the wrong version of
what they ask for and they sometimes
they lose their mind they they had one
client that came in customer and he they
like the the manager said I thought they
were going to assault the person behind
the register um we actually fixed their
drink and they were still just being
very belligerent according to that wheel
that person was T-Rex T-Rex so attacking
punitive sarcastic and they would flow
back and forth between T-Rex and Li cuz
they were trying to control the
conversation they were like we fixed the
we apologized but it kept escalating
what did I do what did we do wrong what
they did wrong was they kept
interrupting and trying to stop the
behavior of that person that person was
in this aggressive State lion SL T-Rex
and when you have somebody
there you have to let them go because by
interrupting the person and telling them
calm down we're going to this what does
that do it aggravates people more let me
vent let me say what I need to say one
of the ways you deal with that kind of
behavior is let them go so long as
you're not in danger or someone's trying
to hurt you Let It Go when they are done
then you can talk but they're not
listening to you that's why the wheel
helps cuz if I've got a lion and he's
trying to control he's being dogat
dogmatic trying to control the
conversation then I come in and say hey
look C down I got you another drink I'm
not letting you talk I'm competing with
you it doesn't work that's why escalates
let people go be L be Mouse it's hard to
be Mouse cuz people's ego won't let them
be Mouse it's hard to sit there and take
it but if you can put your ego to the
side which you should put to the side in
fact we had a saying in the interview
room check your ego at the door because
if you bring your ego in you're
done so you want to put yourself aside
and be able to manage the behavior but
that requires your your ability to be
like I know what I'm saying and this it
always goes back to I don't need to
address every little thing because I
feel I'm being slided I see what I have
I've got a line in front of me let him
finish or her I'm going to be Mouse I'm
going to sit and listen humble seeking
guidance and then when they're done now
I talk because also they're ready to
listen but when you keep interrupting
people they're not ready to hear you I
mean you see that a lot with um bad cops
right so they they pull someone over to
arrest them and the person becomes a
T-Rex that they're trying to arrest they
start insulting them and then the cop
ends up getting a disciplinary case
because they react like a T-Rex they
take the bait if the person's calling
you a FY Z whatever they then start
doing it back and elbowing them and
getting aggressive and then you see
these other examples of really
exceptional police where they're being
verbally insulted and they have total
composure yeah and it's like they're
unfaced it's cuz they're ego and they
really try hard all in the US in the UK
you have an National police force that
means it's one hiring process One Police
Commissioner you know one one person of
authority in the United States there's
177,000 police depart law enforcement
entities they all have their own leader
the problem is their training is
different so for example when I went
into the NYPD they gave me a psychology
test to take uh it's it's something it's
something similar if not the mmpi 2
which is the Minnesota multiphasic
personality inventory what they try to
see is what behaviors I have am I
narcissistic am I hypochondriac what
issues are going on within me to avoid
scenarios like that you have to be
steady because people are going to pull
you into their nonsense people you can't
sit there in law enforcement and be
baited if you get baited it's a problem
you shouldn't be wearing the uniform you
shouldn't be wearing the badge I'm not
saying you sit need to sit there and be
hurt by someone or take physical abuse
but you need to be able to control your
mouth and your behavior even if your
mouth is you said something earlier
which I think is an important point of
nuance here which is it doesn't mean you
have to be passive it just means that
when you as you said decide to burn it
down you're doing it intentionally not
being controlled by some emotional
Puppet Master if you're in law
enforcement and I was like nobody was no
first of all nobody's happy to see you
firemen fire they're happy to see them
no one's happy to see law enforcement
I've never been greeted in the interview
room or even anywhere out there where
they're like hey special agent come on
in so glad you're here they're not happy
to see you because a somebody's getting
arrested B something bad happened C
you're about to arrest somebody that
they care about it's it's it's all bad
news so you have to go in there
understanding that but if you're
offended you're looking to be respected
that's that badge is not for that you
are there to be a peacekeeper and you
have to manage your behavior I remember
NYPD Academy they would take us to the
FDR Highway and it would the FDR runs
around the east side of Manhattan by the
East River and sometimes they take us
they take you there when go running and
they have us run like long distances
people are driving by you doing 5060 M
an hour when I say they're blowing past
you they're blowing past you and this
was pre 911 when I was going through the
academy they're spitting on you or
trying to spit on you cursing you giving
you the finger calling you a pig calling
you all sorts of names so the first time
I experienced this I'm
young we're running and somebody
hollered something at us I said
something I actually stopped running and
turned around and started yelling back
and my instructor the PT instructor the
police officer grabbed me he's like you
don't do that he's like this isn't this
isn't for you if you're going to do that
you have to manage yourself because when
you go out onto the street people will
hate you and if you can't control
yourself you're not going to be able to
manage this and that was the first time
I learned like that is not the way you
earn respect you need to manage yourself
so controlling others starts with
self-control yeah also what does that
say about me that I'm quick to respond
to something like that in the study you
referenced about the animals I read that
the interviewers who were most
successful at getting information were
able to switch between different
communication Styles interviewers who
were most successful understood the
suspect's commun communication style as
well as their own and it made me think
to be successful do I then need to be
able to adopt all of these communication
Styles context dependent because I can
think a lot of a lot of people in my
life that basically don't have a line or
a T-Rex in them they just give Mouse
everywhere they go I can think of some
people who I could just never imagine a
world where they were demanding dogmatic
rigid in charge guiding leading Frank
forthright direct attacking sarcastic
they are just like nice nice okay so
when you're dealing with them you're
going to look at if we're going to use
the animals I mean more how do those
people be successful if I'm they're not
they're not successful they're going to
have a hard time because they've made
themselves they've suppress themselves
so much for whatever reason they're they
can't lead no one there I'm going to
tell you this there's nothing wrong with
mouse actually if you had to default to
any one of those
animals Mouse would be it Mouse is King
I love mice I I think everybody loves M
they're the most likable people they are
and monkeys but yes but Mouse is good
because you're humble seeking guidance
um it means that you're saying less it
means you're listening you're also
gathering information so if I'm trying
to figure Stephen out I'm going to get
more information from Stephen when I'm
not talking and when I ask good
questions rather than me talking a lot
of people think I need to be lying in
charge setting the agenda you can be and
there's times for that like if you're a
leader you need to be lying from time to
time you do but Mouse overall is the one
who gets the most it's the one who gets
the most information so long as you're
good Mouse good Mouse is humble seeking
guidance Stephen tell me what you
looking for a partnership okay help me
understand what matters to you most and
I shut the [__] up and I'm going to let
Stephen show me everything he cares
about his values his beliefs I'm going
to understand Stephen and I'm going to
learn a lot about him so that I can
speak more intelligently to Stephen
about what Steph cares about not what I
care about what you care about
however you also don't want to be the
bad version of mouse and that's where
it's weak submissive avoidant and this
is where you become that and this is
where people pray and victimize you I
can be
Mouse I can ask questions I can learn
but I want to make sure that I don't
cross over to the malignant part of that
which is I'm so conflict averse and so
afraid of it that I will make myself
completely small to the point where
other people will just steamroll me can
mice be leaders cuz I know some mice and
I if I was employing those people I
would absolutely never make someone a
leader who hasn't got a little bit of
line in them it would be irresponsible
it would frankly be irresponsible it
would be unfair on them because they're
going to be challenged by the people
that they are leading and in order for
them to withstand those challenges in a
calm composed as it says on this little
wheel in charge guiding and leading way
like a lion does they're going to need
to have a bit line in them in them you
want to be all of those
animals you want to balance of all of
them that's what you want to strive for
you want a balance of all those in the
good sense right the good version of
those animals you but you need to know
when am I supposed to be lying so if I'm
a a leader if I'm a a business person if
I'm if you have you're selecting someone
to put in charge of a group they have to
have some Lion in them they can't all be
Mouse because no one's going to listen
what if I'm negotiating a pay raise if
you're negotiating a pay raise first of
all you're going to come in with all
your homework done you're not going to
come in and go I think I deserve a raise
I feel like I deserve a raise you know
I've been here for a long time you're
going to come in with a list
of facts and you're going to say I
closed this deal and made this much
money I closed this account with this
person I made this much money I did this
in a year I generated this amount of
money I'm going to list the facts so I
can articulate to you why you should
give me that raise that's on you I think
I feel I believe and then your boss can
turn around be like well I think I feel
I believe that you shouldn't get one
it's so ambiguous when you come in with
facts it's a hard thing to fight now
when you're going into that meeting if
I'm the one asking for the raise I'm
going to go in as lion I'm in charge I'm
setting the agenda because I'm the one
asking for a raise so I'm going to come
in with my facts methodical I'm going to
be good liing sir hi Stephen uh I just
wanted to talk to you I I I I made a I'm
looking to increase my compensation
here well now you're just bad
Ling you want to let the guy even if it
here's the thing let's assume it's no
you're like in your head you're like
there's no
way you're going to let the person talk
you're going to let the person feel
heard even if it's like a hard note
because what's most important is to let
them feel like you actually listened but
what if I say no to you then what do you
do who do you become do you become Mouse
I just said absolutely so I would say
okay i' would say could you explain to
me why I don't want to give you a pay
Rise um I I
think I think you know when I think
about who I'd rather have that money me
you I think me well so you've got
actually T-Rex right there
but how do you deal with it so if it's
T-Rex if it's a person who's trying to
kind of push back and fight you you have
to deal with
T-Rex one of the things that they teach
you with the animal Wheels the only time
you swap is mouse and line cuz two
people can't be in charge so that's the
only time well when you have T-Rex one
of the things they teach you is you have
to deal with T-Rex so you have to be the
good T-Rex which is Frank T-Rex so you
said that you prefer the money go to you
and not to me okay so bad T-Rex to
remind people is attacking sarcastic
etcad T-Rex be bad T-Rex would be like
well you're an idiot you're ridiculous
like you're a jerk and good T-Rex is
Frank forthright and direct yeah so
you're saying you're not going to give
me a raise because you want to keep all
the money for yourself correct and not
for
me okay well I don't know if I can
continue to stay here if that's going to
be the case right you can I've been here
for x amount of years I've generated x
amount of dollars and so that's going to
be an issue for me in my ability to stay
and work here I'm being direct Frank and
forthright address people there's you
can address
people and it doesn't have to be ugly
now again you can't control their
behavior but you can control yours so
you just want to make sure that that a
person who's behaving like that that you
don't get pulled into that behavior you
just want to stay on the good wheel of
it it's all self-regulation but you also
don't want to be afraid to deal with
people that's why dealing with rejection
and and and tough personal ities and
hard people like it's good practice
every time somebody like that comes
along I want you to think I'm practicing
I'm practicing I'm practicing don't be
afraid of it and then it also allows you
to work on your T-Rex because if you
have a hard time with it it allows you
to work that muscle it allows you to
learn how to deal with people who get in
your face while managing yourself that
you're going to have folks like that I
think it's what I was listening to One
researcher one in every 25 people
are either going to be a psycho they're
going to have
antisocial uh personality disorder which
is like psychopath sociopath type of
behavior or narcissistic personality
disorder one of these extreme behaviors
which lack empathy one in 25 people that
means one out of every 25 people you
meet are going to be trying to slap you
around buckle
up we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to be leaving it for
and the question that has been left for
you in the Diary of a CO
is on your
deathbed what do you want your legacy to
be I
want
to have given
something to the
world I want to have added value to the
world rather than taken from it that's
what I would like on my deathbed
and I think
also I just wanted to have lived a good
life when I say good I don't mean
Problem free or anything like that I
mean just I've lived it to my
fullest and I can I can
leave the world with that
peace everybody needs to go listen to
your BBC my course it's really fantastic
it's um there's there's a lot of of
courses on there but but I think your
stands out for so many reasons you
actually pull in some experts who have
trained you on various things in the
past to be part of that course so I'll
link that below but also this book has
been an absolute Revelation to so many
people I think in part because it's so
unbelievably easy to read for everyone
you don't need to be a super Advanced
psychologist or Professor like you are
to understand all of these strategies
and tactics um and it has everything I
think if I was in the um
contents page and just to give people a
flavor of the subjects that you talk
about it's everything from overcoming
fear mental resilience if you must fight
then fight things we've talked about
today the the parts about how to
influence people the subjects about
everybody lying all the stuff we've
talked about and so so much more is in
this book so I recommend if you haven't
read it I know a lot of people have
because they tag me in it all over the
place um I highly recommend you read the
book becoming bulletproof life lessons
from a secret service agent thank you so
much thank you for full of wisdom and um
you remind me of so many things that I
seem to quickly forget um every time we
speak and you're helping so many people
and the Legacy that you aspire to have
is most certainly the Legacy that you're
on course to create by everything that
you do by the millions of people that
you've served and there's something
about you that's very very special
there's some sort of relatability
there's a wisdom there's a frankness and
a no [__] but then there's also the
balance and the nuance and the
understanding that the truth is often
somewhere in the middle which I think is
incredibly important for people so thank
you for being you are and doing all that
you do it's a privilege to speak to you
once again and I hope we speak again in
the future I appreciate you thank you
Stephen
[Music]